FBIS3-58383 "drweu008aa_94018" FBIS-WEU-94-008 Document Type:Daily Report 12 January 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS NATO Supports Russian Reform, Concerned on Caucasus AU1101130294 Paris AFP in English 1110 GMT 11 Jan 94 AU1101130294 Paris AFP Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Brussels, Jan 11 (AFP) -- The North Atlantic Treaty Organisation on Tuesday [11 January] encouraged Russian reforms but expressed concern about continuing fighting and instability in the republics on Russia's southern rim. In a statement issued at the end of a two-day NATO summit, the 16 nations reaffirmed support for political and economic reforms pursued by President Boris Yeltsin, despite the emergence of a strong challenge from extreme nationalists in the new parliament. The December 12 Russian elections and adoption of a new constitution conferring executive powers on the president marked "a major step forward in the establishment of framework for the development of durable democratic institutions. "We further welcome the Russian government's firm commitment to democratic and market reform and to a reformist foreign policy. These are important for security and stability in Europe. We believe that an indepednent, democratic, stable and nuclear-weapons free Ukraine would likewise contribute to security and stability. "We will continue to encourage and support the reform processes in both countries and to develop cooperation with them, as with other countries in Central and East Europe," NATO said. But the communique went on: "The situation in southern Caucasus continues to be of special concern," referring mainly to Armenia's bitter territorial struggle with Azerbaijan over Armenian-dominated Nagorno-Karabakh. "We condemn the use of force for territorial gains. Respect for the territorial integrity, independence and sovereignty of Armenia, Azerbaijan and Georgia is essential to the establishment of peace, stability and cooperation in the region." "We call upon all states to join international efforts under the aegis of the United Nations and the CSCE (Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe) aimed at solving existing problems."
