FBIS4-55583 "dreeu096_i_94002" FBIS-EEU-94-096 Daily Report 17 May 1994 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA Izetbegovic Demands NATO Adhere To Resolutions Izetbegovic Demands NATO Adhere To Resolutions AU1705191394 Sarajevo Radio Bosnia-Herzegovina Network in Serbo-Croatian 1700 GMT 17 May 94 AU1705191394 Sarajevo Radio Bosnia-Herzegovina Network Serbo-Croatian BFN [Text] Considering the obvious increase in tensions around Sarajevo in the past few days, we have looked at the provisions of the NATO ultimatum of 10 February this year to see under what conditions the ultimatum is applicable, and came to the conclusion that the current situation is unsatisfactory. This was stated in a letter that Alija Izetbegovic, president of the Presidency of Bosnia-Herzegovina, today sent to UN Secretary General Butrus Butrus-Ghali, chairman of the Security Council, and Manfred Woerner, secretary general of NATO. Although more than three months have passed, heavy weapons have not been completely withdrawn from around Sarajevo, nor have they been placed under UNPROFOR [UN Protection Forces] control, President Izetbegovic writes. According to the information of the state leadership of Bosnia-Herzegovina, the aggressor still has one tank in Zlatiste, one 122-mm gun in the Ilijas area, and one tank in the Busile area. In Hadzici, the enemy has one tank and two antiaircraft guns. In Grbavica, it has one tank, two armored personnel carriers, and two (?three-barrel) antiaircraft guns. The Serbs have another tank in Vojkovici. Regarding enemy weapons in Vogosca, there are still two antiaircraft guns, one mortar, and one hill gun there. Since the responsible officials in UNPROFOR are aware of this situation, President Izetbegovic continues, but are not doing anything against the aggressor apart from issuing appeals and pleas, we ask ourselves whether the Security Council resolution is binding for them and whether they are empowered to carry out their private policy and personally assess what should and should not be done. No one has the right to play with the security of the town that has suffered so much and with the lives of its residents. Therefore, we expect the measures needed to put the situation in the Sarajevo exclusion zone in order to be taken without delay. This was stated in a letter that President Izetbegovic has sent to the UN secretary general, the chairman of the Security Council, and the secretary general of NATO.
