FBIS4-23767 "drafr115_e_94005" FBIS-AFR-94-115 Daily Report 14 Jun 1994 WEST AFRICA Guinea Senior Officers Detained for Alleged Coup Attempt Senior Officers Detained for Alleged Coup Attempt AB1406191294 London BBC World Service in English 1705 GMT 14 Jun 94 AB1406191294 London BBC World Service English BFN [From the "Focus on Africa" program] [Text] The authorities in Guinea say several senior military officers have been detained for allegedly plotting to overthrow the government of Lansana Conte. The president himself is out of the country, attending the OAU summit. From Conakry, Foday Fofana telexed this report. According to relatives and colleagues, Commander (Keida Kourouma), head of the Parachutist Battalion and Commander (Ouphara Oulare), deputy chief of staff of the Air Force, were picked up on Thursday [9 June] and Friday last week, respectively. Both men are now held in open detention at the National Gendarmerie Headquarters in Conakry. Although an officer there denied they were holding (Kouroma) and (Oulare), a colleague and myself spotted (Kouroma) in civilian clothes entering the room where he is being held. Meanwhile, tension is believed to be mounting inside the Alpha Yaya military base here following an attempted mutiny by soldiers there yesterday. An eyewitness told me last night that soldiers loyal to the detained officers had wanted to storm the ammunition depot, arm themselves, and move on the Gendarmerie Headquarters in the heart of the capital to free their superiors, but the timely intervention of other senior military officers succeeded in calming down the situation, the eyewitness said. The arrest coincides with the retirement of some 200 senior officers ordered by President Conte last Saturday. Defense Minister Colonel Abdourahmane Diallo was not available for comment but his permanent secretary, Captain Camara, could only say that the judicial arm of the Army is still investigating. Despite reports that the detained officers were not being tortured, Mr. Christian Sow of the Guinea Human Rights Association has said the best guarantee is to have access to the detainees in order to ascertain that they were not denied food or medical treatment if need be.
