FBIS4-38874 "drsov107_d_94007" FBIS-SOV-94-107 Daily Report 2 Jun 1994 Regional Affairs Tatarstan Takes Measures To Stabilize Economy Tatarstan Takes Measures To Stabilize Economy LD0200165700 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1529 GMT 2 Jun 94 LD0200165700 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Nikolay Sorokin] [Text] Kazan June 2 TASS -- "The urgent measures to stabilise Tatarstan's economy are being taken for the sake of our people," Tatar Prime Minister Mukhammat Sabirov told ITAR-TASS. Corresponding draft documents have already been drawn up by the republic's government and will be submitted for approval to the next session of the Tatarstan Supreme Soviet. "These radical measures were prompted by the difficult situation in the republic's economy," the premier said. "The production slump equalled to almost 30 per cent this year, as compared to the corresponding period of 1993, and the figure for the defence industry reached 47 per cent. The situation is somewhat better only in the agro-industrial sector, where output of goods is growing. Vigorous measures were taken to ensure a good harvest this year. The government was able to find money to pay the wages delayed since January 1944. "The purpose of the urgent measures is to help the strong and protect the weak," the premier said. "Strong commodity producers will be provided with better conditions for increasing the output of high-quality goods. The poor sections of the population will get differentiated social protection. Possessing rich natural resources and a strong scientific and technological potential, Tatarstan is able to create every condition for the harmonic development of its market, for improving the people's living standards," the prime minister believes. "Leading economists and financiers have worked for almost one year on the urgent measures. They have a minimum programme, covering the period from 1994 to 1995, and a maximum programme for a longer stretch of time. They have drawn on the experience of market economies in more than 60 countries, including Turkey, China, Germany and the United States. Although no exact all-embracing model was found, many parts of the programme are based on foreign experience," Sabirov stated.
