FBIS4-20111 "drweu082cc_94005" FBIS-WEU-94-082 Daily Report 25 Apr 1994 INTER-EUROPEAN AFFAIRS Former Belgian Premier To Run for EC Presidency Former Belgian Premier To Run for EC Presidency BR2504134294 Antwerp GAZET VAN ANTWERPEN in Dutch 25 Apr 94 p 5 BR2504134294 Antwerp GAZET VAN ANTWERPEN Dutch BFN [Unattributed article: "Martens Ready To Assume Responsibilities"] [Text] If the EPP [European People's Party], the Belgian Government, and the other European Governments find Wilfried Martens the best man to head the European Commission (EC), he will be prepared to assume his responsibilities, Wilfried Martens told GAZET VAN ANTWERPEN. Wilfried Martens: "The matter must be seen in a wider context. There are no official candidates for the EC presidency. With Jacques Delors, the European Socialists have headed the Commission for 10 years. It is only normal for a Christian Democrat to have a turn. It is also clear that someone from a small country, such as one of the Benelux countries, has the best chance." An additional point in Wilfried Martens favor is the desire repeatedly expressed by the European Council of government leaders for the new president of the EC Commission to be a past or present head of government. It is thus only logical for names such as Ruud Lubbers and Wilfried Martens to come up. "But Jean-Luc Dehaene," Martens says, "would be a good president. Agreement must also be reached concerning other important posts, including the presidency of the European Parliament." Immediately following the European elections in May, the presidents of the European Christian Democrat parties and Christian Democrat government leaders will meet to discuss the situation. "But a lot will obviously depend," Martens says "on the attitude of the other governments." As EPP president, Martens says he is "relaxed" about the situation. As president, he must also adopt a neutral stance. "I am therefore restrained in my comments. But everyone knows my convictions and knows what I stand for." The question as to whether or not he is a candidate for the presidency of the EC Commission is therefore only indirectly answered. "If the EPP, the Belgian Government, and the other government leaders consider that I am the most suitable man, then I will not evade my responsibilities."
