FBIS3-53643 "drnes011_l_94005" FBIS-NES-94-011 Document Type:Daily Report 18 Jan 1994 ISRAEL Leadership Comments on Clinton-al-Asad Summit Beilin: `We Are Still Far From Clarity' TA1601172294 Jerusalem Qol Yisra'el in Hebrew 1646 GMT 16 Jan 94 TA1601172294 Jerusalem Qol Yisra'el Language: Hebrew Article Type:BFN [Telephone interview with Deputy Foreign Minister Yosi Beilin by Mikha'el Tuchfeld -- live] [Text] [Tuchfeld] Mr. Beilin, do the pronouncements heard at the joint news conference by Presidents Clinton and al-Asad, in which the latter spoke about normal relations, meet Israel's expectations? [Beilin] I think we must wait for a detailed report about the lengthy meeting held by the two men which we are due to get either tonight or tomorrow morning. The pronouncements made at the news conference were important, but they are not what we would like to hear from President al-Asad himself. Had the latter said what President Clinton said we would definitely feel more comfortable. It is important to ascertain whether President al-Asad's is fully committed. The commitment in principle to arrive at a comprehensive peace and to work toward normalization are important, and I would not want to play them down in any way. The feeling would seem to be that we have taken a step forward, although we are still far from clarity. [Tuchfeld] Does the fact that the two presidents issued separate statements rather than a joint one strengthen what you say; namely, that we heard the pronouncements from Clinton rather than from al-Asad? [Beilin] Maybe. I do not know whether they had planned to come out with a joint statement, but the fact remains that they issued separate statements. Of course, both statements contained positive elements. Some things, which cannot be dismissed out of hand, were left unsaid. However, as I said before, we should wait for a full report and regard this news conference as an element of progress in a long process which may now be shortened. [Tuchfeld] Is the opening of a U.S.-Syrian channel of communications good or detrimental for Israel? [Beilin] It is not detrimental for Israel. I think it is part of an overall structure containing a three-way and a two-way dialogue between us and the Syrians and between the Syrians and the Americans. I see it as part of overall progress, and not as something having an adverse effect on us. [Tuchfeld] But we did not hear even one word on the question of terror. Syria is considered a terror-supporting country, but we heard no mention of the subject in the news conference. [Beilin] I suppose many things were said behind closed doors and were not repeated at the news conference. We must wait a few more hours to better understand what happened in the closed rooms. [Tuchfeld] Finally, I cannot help asking you about Prime Minister Yitzhaq Rabin's criticism today. He said your remarks last week about the future of the Golan and that settlements should not have been established there were thoughtless. [Beilin] Perhaps you cannot help asking me, but I am entitled not to answer you. [Tuchfeld] Mr. Beilin, thank you very much.
