FBIS4-25291 "drchi111_d_94003" FBIS-CHI-94-111 Daily Report 9 Jun 1994 Northeast Asia More on DPRK Nuclear Issue More on DPRK Nuclear Issue HK0906091894 Beijing ZHONGGUO XINWEN SHE in Chinese 0808 GMT 9 Jun 94 HK0906091894 Beijing ZHONGGUO XINWEN SHE Chinese BFN [By reporter Li Wei (2621 0251)] [Text] Beijing, 9 Jun (ZHONGGUO XINWEN SHE) -- China's Vice Premier and Foreign Minister Qian Qichen told ROK Foreign Minister Han Sung-chu this morning: China holds that two basic targets should be set for the settlement of the issue of North Korea's nuclear fuel, that is, promoting denuclearization in the Korean peninsula and safeguarding peace and stability there. China considers these two targets are in conformity with the fundamental interests of all countries in northeast Asia. The Chinese and ROK foreign ministers held a working meeting here this morning. Han Sung-chu gave an account of the recent new developments of the nuclear issue on the Korean peninsula. Qian Qichen expounded China's views on the current situation. Thanks to efforts made by various parties, Qian Qichen said that the situation at the previous stage had developed in a positive direction. Because of differences between the International Atomic Energy Agency and the DPRK on inspections of the nuclear fuel rods, the situation had deteriorated. China is deeply concerned about the situation. In the face of the current difficulties, Qian Qichen pointed out that the parties concerned should, in particular, keep calm and remain restrained and should not shut the door to negotiations. Qian said that China had appealed to the parties concerned to continue to make efforts to restart talks to leave room for the possibility of a settlement of the issue. Qian also pointed out that sanctions would not help solve the problem. On the contrary, they might lead to consequences which no one wished to see. Han Sung-chu arrived in Beijing on the evening of 8 June for a working visit. He will leave for home on the afternoon of 9 June.
