FBIS4-68509 "jpusr050___94045" FBIS-USR-94-050 JPRS FBIS Report: Central Eurasia 14 April 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS U.S. Firm To Cooperate With Ilyushin Plant U.S. Firm To Cooperate With Ilyushin Plant 944Q0317A Moscow KOMMERSANT-DAILY in Russian 14 Apr 94 p 9 944Q0317A Moscow KOMMERSANT-DAILY Russian CSO [Article by Yevgeniy Ostapov, correspondent: "(!) American Engines Will Lift Russian ILs Into the Air: Plans of the Ilyushin Aviation Complex"] [Text] During yesterday's press conference, dedicated to the 60th anniversary of the S.V. Iliushin Aviation Complex and the 100th anniversary of the birth of the founder of this design bureau, it was announced that the firm's primary task today is to return Ilyushin products to the world market. In order to accomplish this, the aviation complex intends to cooperate with the American firm of Pratt & Whitney. Yevgeniy Ostapov, correspondent, tells about the Ilyushin plans, as they were announced at the press conference. The S.M. Ilyushin Aviation Complex today has the OKB (Bureau of Experimental Design), production experience, and a flight testing base in Zhukovskiy, where around 5,000 persons are employed. The Voronezh and Tashkent aircraft plants are occupied with the serial production of IL aircraft. Without halting work on military projects (seven percent of total work), the aviation complex considers as its main task the design of passenger and transport aircraft needed by Russian aviation. A great deal of attention is being devoted to implementing an international program based on cooperation with Pratt & Whitney, the American engine construction firm, and the Collins Company, manufacturer of aviation equipment. On April 6, 1993, flight testing was begun on a wide-fuselage, long-range airliner, the Il-96M, equipped with Pratt & Whitney engines--the first achievement of this cooperation. Comparing the Il-96M with the Boeing 777, Genrikh Novozhilov, general designer of the aviation complex, noted that they are very similar in their characteristics, but the four-engined Ilyushin aircraft requires a great outlay for operational expenses. At yesterday's press conference it was noted that during a meeting between representatives of Russian air and space companies and Viktor Chernomyrdin on April 6th, the Prime Minister promised state support and loans for manufacturing the Il-96M at the Voronezh aircraft plant. The production plan calls for constructing 24 airliners per year. The Prime Minister also gave his support to the Pratt & Whitney program for improving the Russian aircraft engine PS-90A, produced by the Perm Motors association. The new engines will be used in the Il-96-300, Il-96M/T, TU-204, and Il-76 aircraft, as well as in gas-pumping stations and electric generator plants. In addition, Viktor Chernomyrdin also approved a program for creating a unified aircraft construction complex at the site of the S.V. Ilyushin complex and the Voronezh Aircraft Plant. The question of including the Tashkent Aviation Association in one complex will be decided during negotiations with the government of Uzbekistan.
