FBIS4-668 "drafr072_a_94018" FBIS-AFR-94-072 Daily Report 13 Apr 1994 CENTRAL AFRICA Rwanda Liberal Party Denounces Government, Massacres Liberal Party Denounces Government, Massacres EA1304163194 (Clandestine) Radio Muhabura in English to Rwanda 1100 GMT 13 Apr 94 EA1304163194 (Clandestine) Radio Muhabura English BFN [Statement issued by the Liberal Party; place and date not given] [Text] Due to the current crisis in our country, caused by elements who are opposed to the Arusha peace agreement, the Liberal Party [PL] is saddened by the death of President Habyarimana and the death of the president of Burundi, Cyprien Ntaryamira, who died on 5 April 1994. The Liberal Party denounces the massacres in Kigali and the rest of the country. The massacres perpetuated by Presidential Guards, MRND [Republican National Movement for Democracy and Development] youthwingers and some elements of the Army. The killings targeted members of the opposition and people of Tutsi origin. They killed the prime minister, Mrs. Agathe Uwilingiyimana, cabinet ministers, and opposition leaders. It is clear that the massacres had been planned earlier on. The PL denounces the so-called government that has been announced in Kigali, a government that is founded on the massacre of more than 20,000 people in Kigali alone. A government that was formed in disregard of the national Constitution. The PL denounces the murdering of Landouald Ndasingwa, formerly the first vice president of the Liberal Party and the other members of the Liberal Party who have been murdered. The PL denounces Mr. Justin Mugenzi and his clique who are trying to hijack the Liberal Party and join the illegitimate government that has been announced in Rwanda. The current crisis in Rwanda is the implementation of a plan that has been hatched for some time. The plan is now implemented by murderers who have killed opposition leaders and people of Tutsi origin. This trend of killing has continued since the war started. These killers should be made to answer for their crimes. The PL requests all the opposition parties in Rwanda, the international community, and all peace-loving people to join hands and fight the enemies of peace and democracy in Rwanda. Signed by Kayiranga Esdras, Higiro Prosper, Musengimana Joseph. These are some of the surviving leaders of the Liberal Party.
