FBIS3-11487 "drlat055_o_94004" FBIS-LAT-94-055 Document Type:Daily Report 21 Mar 1994 Colombia Envoy Denies Suspension of Information Exchange With U.S. PA2103035194 Santa Fe de Bogota Inravision Television Cadena 1 in Spanish 0130 GMT 21 Mar 94 PA2103035194 Santa Fe de Bogota Inravision Television Cadena 1 Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Report by Diego Suarez; from the "TV Today" newscast] [Text] The United States has not suspended the exchange of evidence and judicial information with Colombia, Ambassador to Washington Gabriel Silva Lujan said today, denying reports by international news agencies concerning such a suspension. The diplomat said that on the contrary, new cooperation systems are being studied in the antidrug-trafficking struggle. According to the ambassador, although there are some differences of criteria between our government and the United States over the policy of bringing drug traffickers to justice, no break in the exchange of judicial information has taken place. [Begin Silva recording] I do not think this decision has been made, because until recently we have maintained an open and clear dialogue with U.S. authorities. At no time has this possibility been mentioned. I have maintained frequent and close contact with U.S. authorities. During none of the official or informal meetings I have held with them have they informed me of such a decision. [end recording] In the meantime, the attorney general has defended Prosecutor General de Greiff's administration and said that the two countries are perfecting the judicial cooperation system. [Begin recording] [Attorney General Arrieta] The fact of the matter is that there are many people who would be interested in blocking this cooperation process. On one occasion I have said criminals are the only ones to fish in these troubled waters. [Justice Minister Andres Gonzalez] There have been differences that are known to the public, but I trust we can embark on a great effort to create an atmosphere that favors the much-needed judicial cooperation in the international area. [end recording]
