FBIS3-11239 "drlat054_f_94014" FBIS-LAT-94-054 Document Type:Daily Report 20 Mar 1994 CENTRAL AMERICA El Salvador Officials Comment on Upcoming Elections Vice President Merino PA2003214294 San Salvador Radio Cadena YSKL in Spanish 2038 GMT 20 Mar 94 PA2003214294 San Salvador Radio Cadena YSKL Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Report by Wilmer Lizama; from the "YSKL 94 Electoral News Coverage" program] [Excerpt] The elections have been held under good conditions here in San Miguel. We visited the towns of Chinameca, Moncagua, and Quelepa and talked with residents who said at least 1,600 people are registered to vote in the town of Chinameca. There are approximately 11,000 registered voters in Moncagua Municipality. In Moncagua, Jose Felicito Rivas Gomez, mayoral candidate for the Nationalist Republican Alliance, ARENA, said the residents of this area have turned out to vote in large numbers. These are the areas in which during the wartime residents did not come out to vote. Meanwhile, Vice President Francisco Merino Lopez is here in San Miguel. He gave statements to YSKL listeners on the elections, which have been called the elections of the century. [Begin Merino recording] Thank you, YSKL friends. We are really surprised at this civic festivity Salvadorans and San Miguel residents are witnessing. We believe, from our comparative analyses, there are many more voters in these elections than in previous ones, a reflection of the people's expectations there would be more freedom of expression with peace. We believe the elections are being held orderly and normally. A great deal of political definition is perceived in the atmosphere, in terms of which parties are more organized and have more supporters. The way people are dressed helps one understand for whom they would vote. I think we are taking a very important step in the country's political history. We will gain a privileged position on the continental level with these elections. In addition to general currents, all currents of political thinking are participating in the elections, and the people will decide with their votes, freely, who will be elected. [end recording] [passage omitted]
