FBIS4-34140 "drlat116_a_94007" FBIS-LAT-94-116 Daily Report 15 Jun 1994 CARIBBEAN Cuba Commentary on Nixon's Book on U.S. Blockade, Cuba Commentary on Nixon's Book on U.S. Blockade, Cuba FL1506211094 Havana Radio Rebelde Network in Spanish 1700 GMT 15 Jun 94 FL1506211094 Havana Radio Rebelde Network Spanish BFN [From the "National Radio News"] [Text] The newspaper EL NUEVO HERALD today published an extract of the last book written by former U.S. President Richard Nixon, who passed away on 22 April. In his book, "Beyond Peace," the ultraconservative statesman, who was an enemy of the Cuban Revolution, expounds on his theory about the policy that should be followed by the United States regarding Cuba and discusses the blockade issue. We give details of journalist Marco Castellon's commentary on this issue in "Doing Radio": [Begin Castellon recording] In his book, Nixon recommends the separation of political and economic relations with Vietnam, allowing each to develop at its own pace. Although he recognizes differences between the Vietnamese reality and the Cuban reality, he encourages something similar concerning Cuba. In Cuba's case, former President Nixon says a considerable part of the pressure to maintain the embargo is derived from the old belief, particularly among many members of the exiled Cuban community, that it is the best way to put an end to what he terms the cruel and destructive Castro regime. Therefore, he leaves no doubt about his position concerning the Cuban process. He nevertheless recognizes that, following the Soviet Union's collapse, economic conditions on the island worsened; and after 35 years of Fidel Castro's government, hardliners who oppose him have not been able to destroy him. Therefore, he says it is time to change the goal sought by the North American policy, from trying to harm the Cuban Government to helping the people because, Nixon thinks, it is highly unlikely the island will become a subversive threat in the hemisphere even if the Cuban economy improves. This means the economic embargo should be lifted to permit trade, investments, and economic interaction between the United States and Cuba. He insists, of course, that ideas and information be allowed to flow as freely as products. [end recording]
