FBIS3-56906 "drsov014_f_94010" FBIS-SOV-94-014 Document Type:Daily Report 21 Jan 1994 National Affairs Kravchuk Favors Balanced Division of Powers LD1801211994 Moscow INTERFAX in English 1924 GMT 18 Jan 94 LD1801211994 Moscow INTERFAX Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] At a Tuesday conference of representatives of government bodies of all levels in Kiev, Ukrainian President Leonid Kravchuk supported the proposal on the removal of the president from the system of executive power. "The president should not be placed above everyone, just beyond the executive branch of power. He should control, but not interfere," Kravchuk said. He described as the chief stabilizing factor "a balance of the powers between branches of government and their democratic transformation." Kravchuk promised that presidential structures would do their utmost to hold parliamentary elections in Ukraine and bring "qualified and loyal deputies" to the new parliament. However, in his opinion the elections are not the last step in reforming the system of government. Ukraine needs an integral system with a clear separation of powers. The president also spoke for holding a referendum on key provisions of the constitution simultaneously with the parliamentary elections on March 27. He confirmed his proposal to drop from the fundamental law provisions concerning the official language, state symbol, and flag, the state order and other matters that might cause political confrontation. On the latest developments in Crimea, Kravchuk said he believes the new constitution should declare that the executive branch of power in the autonomous republic be formed and act on the basis of the constitution and legislation of Ukraine as well as the Crimean constitution that should conform with the Ukrainian fundamental law. Kravchuk suggested amending the constitution offering president powers to cancel the decisions of the Crimean parliament, if they contradict acting Ukrainian legislation. The speaker of parliament Ivan Plyushch promised that such an amendment would be made and the conference voted for including the matter in the final document. The president agreed with the proposals of participants to cut down the staffs of executive bodies of all levels by 25%.
