FBIS3-30997 "dreeu030_d_94007" FBIS-EEU-94-030 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Feb 1994 SLOVAKIA `Alternative' Heads Refuse To Resign LD1302163694 Prague Radiozurnal Radio Network in Czech 1500 GMT 13 Feb 94 LD1302163694 Prague Radiozurnal Radio Network Language: Czech Article Type:BFN [Text] [Announcer] Following the debacle at the extraordinary meeting of the republican leadership of the Movement for a Democratic Slovakia [HZDS] on Saturday [12 February], journalists were addressed in Bratislava today by Deputy Prime Minister Roman Kovac, Foreign Minister Jozef Moravcik, and HZDS deputy Vladimir Bajan. Our correspondent Renata Havranova, editor of the daily PRACE, reports. [Havranova] Both Kovac and Moravcik rejected Meciar's accusation of cowardice and an attempt to break up the HZDS behind his back. The prime minister's claim that they betrayed him by assuring him of their loyalty before bringing in the Alternative of Political Realism is untrue. On the contrary, Kovac stressed that he spent three and a half hours explaining to Meciar where the causes for the differing views rested. Moravcik added that loyalty is irrelevant in the process of solving a serious political crisis. Both of them rejected the possibility of resigning and said that their resignation would amount to admitting mistakes. But they naturally reckon that they will be dismissed. They said that the proposal that they should be expelled from the HZDS was a poor indication of the democracy existing in the movement, which meant to represent the freedom of thought. The verdict that they breached the [HZDS] charter is also unsubstantiated. They did not organize the Alternative as a faction because the charter bans factions. Deputy Bajan said that, in order to determine what the next action in parliament will be, he would have to establish what was happening to the deputies who support the Alternative before and after the leadership meeting. What he probably meant were the so-far-unconfirmed reports that some of them--for example, Deputies [Martin] Zingor and [Anna] Draxlerova--were even threatened with physical violence. Speaking about the government of broad coalition without top political leaders, they said that, no matter how absurd this idea appeared to be, the opposition accepted it and that this trend would continue in Slovakia. The government posts should be filled with real pragmatists, even unaffiliated ones, capable of bringing stability to Slovakia. All of them said that early elections were the best possible solution to the situation that has arisen. The solution they proposed has only speeded up the whole process of sorting out the problems in society. According to Kovac and Moravcik, expectations that the government might be dismissed as early as 16 February, at the parliament's session, appear to be unrealistic for the time being.
