FBIS4-19558 "drweu076_l_94001" FBIS-WEU-94-076 Daily Report 19 Apr 1994 SPAIN Solana Criticizes U.S., Russian Moves on Bosnia Solana Criticizes U.S., Russian Moves on Bosnia LD1904153994 Madrid TVE Internacional Television in Spanish 1300 GMT 19 Apr 94 LD1904153994 Madrid TVE Internacional Television Spanish BFN [Quotation marks denote recorded passages] [Text] In parliament today Foreign Minister Javier Solana criticized the leading role of Russia and the United States in the international action for solving the conflict in former Yugoslavia. According to Javier Solana, Clinton and Yeltsin's policy of halting air strikes signaled a go-ahead to the Serbs, implying that they could continue their actions in Gorazde. Solana also said that the presence of Spanish soldiers in the area depends on how the conflict develops. [Correspondent Durban] Spain is willing for its blue helmets to remain as long as the Bosnian, Croat, and Serb communities are willing to live in harmony. This was stated by Javier Solana today in parliament. It is interpreted as meaning that Spain is still in favor of a political solution to the Balkan conflict. [Solana] "I think that the Spaniards have no reason to feel humiliated by what is happening. Our role is being carried out with dignity." [Durban] Today the gradual replacement of the Madrid Group went on with another 300 blue helmets leaving Seville for Bosnia. [Colonel Pedro Brana of Cordoba Group] "The mission is the same as the one that is being carried out right now. What can change are the commitments, they change according to the specific moment." [Durban] "As was the case before, several women officers are responsible for the health and psychological care of the contingent." [Lieutenant Iris Ruiz] "I belong to the psychiatric group. I have a diploma in psychology, and we are going to provide support for the troops and for all the personnel." [Durban] A further 500 blue helmets will travel to Bosnia over the next few days to join the Cordoba Group.
