FBIS3-11224 "drlat054bb_94007" FBIS-LAT-94-054 Document Type:Daily Report 18 Mar 1994 INTER-AMERICAN AFFAIRS Venezuelan Plans To Quit Parlatino Denied PY1803231994 Madrid EFE in Spanish 0142 GMT 18 Mar 94 PY1803231994 Madrid EFE Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Text] Sao Paulo, 17 Mar (EFE) -- Argentine Senator Luis Rubeo, secretary of the Latin American Parliament [Parlatino] committees, on 17 March dismissed rumors spread from Venezuela that the Venezuelan Congress might not join Parlatino, which groups 22 countries in the region. Asked about the absence of Venezuelan deputies during the committee meetings being held at the Parlatino's permanent seat in Sao Paulo, Brazil, Sen. Rubeo said: "This is a natural consequence of political readjustments that occur after new officials are elected." The Venezuelan congressmen who are members of the Parlatino committees could not travel to Sao Paulo because President Rafael Caldera's Convergence Party, which recently became the ruling party, demanded a revision of all international activities by the Venezuelan Congress. As a result, the deputies' trip was not authorized. Rubeo said: "We support the winds of austerity blowing in the brotherly country, but we are sure that Venezuela will not give up the privileged positions it has won in the international community thanks to its fervent effort to support continental integration." "Through me, Parlatino urges the Venezuelan congressmen to continue participating in this task aimed at drafting programs that will end hunger and inequalities in the continent," Sen. Rubeo said. Venezuelan Deputy Henry Bencid, Parlatino vice president for Venezuela, said in Caracas on 16 March that his country risks staying out of Parlatino because "Convergence opposes Congress complying with its international commitments." According to Bencid, who is a leader of the opposition Social-Christian Party [COPEI], Convergence's attitude results from a "misunderstood" position of austerity, which has been announced by the new administration. The Venezuelan deputy asserted that a revision of the Venezuelan Congress' international activities, as demanded by President Caldera, might imply derogation of the law that approved Parlatino's institutionalization. Bencid said that if this occurred, the Venezuelan Congress would have to quit Parlatino and lose the benefits granted by it. Currently, several Venezuelan congressmen occupy important positions in Parlatino. The president, for example, is Social Democratic Action Party Deputy Humberto Celli, and the vice presidents of three committees are Venezuelan deputies.
