FBIS4-3771 "drchi079_w_94004" FBIS-CHI-94-079 Daily Report 23 Apr 1994 HONG KONG & MACAO Hong Kong Chief Secretary Departs for MFN Talks Chief Secretary Departs for MFN Talks HK2304075394 Hong Kong HONGKONG STANDARD in English 23 Apr 94 p 4 HK2304075394 Hong Kong HONGKONG STANDARD English BFN [By Ming Man] [Text] Chief Secretary Anson Chan left for the United States last night on a week-long visit to lobby for the renewal of China's most-favoured-nation (MFN) status. Mrs Chan, on her first official visit to the U.S. since becoming Chief Secretary, said again that if trade sanctions were slapped on China, Hong Kong would be the loser. "We have done some assessment of the harm to our economy that this might do and our assessments indicate that if MFN was withdrawn then our economic growth will be halved and our unemployment rate will be trebled," she said. The United States has already indicated that it could impose limited trade sanctions on China unless its record on human rights improves by June. During her visit, Mrs Chan is scheduled to meet senior U.S. officials including Acting Secretary of State Strobe Talbott and Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen. She is also seeking a meeting with U.S. Vice-President Al Gore. Mrs Chan dismissed claims that by fighting for China's renewed MFN status, Hong Kong was disregarding human rights. "There are probably no people anywhere on this earth who are more concerned with human rights than people in Hong Kong, particularly with the reversion of sovereignty of power to China in about three years' time," she said. Mrs Chan repeated the Hong Kong government's view that improving China's economy would help improve the human rights cause. "We see for ourselves, for example in Guangdong, that because they enjoy economic growth they now have more choices. They are far freer, I would say, than people elsewhere in the interior of China. Obviously that's the way to go." Mrs Chan said an alternative way to achieve an improvement in China's human rights record was to keep discussing and pushing the human rights question while maintaining trade relations.
