FBIS4-20245 "drweu083_b_94003" FBIS-WEU-94-083 Daily Report 27 Apr 1994 BENELUX COUNTRIES Belgium EU Survey Shows Rising Consumer Confidence EU Survey Shows Rising Consumer Confidence BR2804142094 Antwerp DE FINANCIEEL EKONOMISCHE TIJD in Dutch 27 Apr 94 p 1 BR2804142094 Antwerp DE FINANCIEEL EKONOMISCHE TIJD Dutch BFN [Report signed WV: "Belgian Consumers Just as Optimistic as Other Europeans"] [Text] The confidence of the Belgian consumer has increased more over the last two months than in the rest of the European Union (EU). In March, Belgium's confidence index rose to minus 22 compared to minus 25 in January, while in the EU it rose to minus 22 from minus 24. As a result, for the first time since March last year, the Belgian consumer is just as optimistic as the average European. This is the picture which emerges from the figures for February and March recently published by the EU. The EU organizes a monthly "harmonized EU survey among the Union's consumers" in order to determine a consumer confidence index. As part of this survey, 20,000 consumers are interviewed. In Belgium, the survey is conducted by the Dimarso agency. The sharp rise in consumer confidence in Belgium since the end of last year suggests that the economic recovery which began in the second quarter of last year is lasting and balanced. Household consumption largely determines the level of demand in the economy, representing more than 60 percent of the GDP. Some economists were concerned at the end of last year because at that time consumer confidence was not following the increase in business confidence. Business confidence, as assessed by the National Bank surveys, has been growing since the summer of 1993. This confidence has had a strong impact on the supply-side of the economy, that is production. The relatively slow reaction among consumers was no doubt due to uncertainty regarding the crisis plan. The Dehaene government announced a social pact in July, but was unable to reach agreement with the social partners. This is why it opted for a crisis plan, that was only finally completed in November.
