FBIS4-1132 "drafr078_c_94013" FBIS-AFR-94-078 Daily Report 21 Apr 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA Federal Party Releases Political Manifesto Federal Party Releases Political Manifesto MB2204085694 Johannesburg SAPA in English 2311 GMT 21 Apr 94 MB2204085694 Johannesburg SAPA English BFN [Report by S Denny] [Text] Johannesburg April 21 SAPA -- The Federal Party [FP] stands for maximum devolution of power, direct democracy and entrenched fundamental freedoms. Releasing its election manifesto in Johannesburg on Thursday [21 April], the FP said devolution forced local governments to compete for investment and workers. "Devolution of power will reduce political violence, which is caused by centralisation of the past and centralisation entrenched in the interim constitution," the party's leader Frances Kendall said. The FP believed central government should have power only over matters of national interest, including national defence, foreign affairs, foreign trade, national trade and the protection of entrenched fundamental rights. Resolving the land issue was South Africa's toughest challenge, Ms Kendall said, adding it was important not to abuse property rights further. "A land court should address specific claims and compensation. All government-owned land and housing should be transferred to private ownership with freehold title. Legislation which protects inefficient farmers and prevents sub-division of land should be repealed," she said. Calling for voucher systems for the poor and for education, the FP manifesto said these would be used to subsidise rent or to buy homes or for education. A bill of rights should be entrenched without a "limitation" clause and should protect people from an abusive government. The current constitution allowed government to suspend the bill of rights "when it is needed most -- under a state of emergency". South Africa's new constitutional court was elitist and should be abolished, the party said. "Ordinary courts should interpret and apply the constitution and every person should have the right to trial by jury."
