FBIS3-18894 "drweu046_n_94009" FBIS-WEU-94-046 Document Type:Daily Report 9 Mar 1994 NORDIC COUNTRIES Finland * Armed Forces To Modernize Conscript Training 94EN0227B Helsinki HELSINGIN SANOMAT in Finnish 6 Feb 94 p 9 94EN0227B Helsinki HELSINGIN SANOMAT Language: Finnish Article Type:CSO [Article by Pyry Lapintie: "Armed Forces To Try New Methods in Conscript Training"] [Text] Sakyla -- The Armed Forces will begin developing and modernizing conscript training. The modernization experiment will be initiated in the Turku-Pori military province and will involve 3,000 conscripts plus a few hundred members of the regular cadre at three defense installations. The experiment will involve the previous year's last class and this year's first class of the Pori Brigade, the Turku Coastal Regiment, and the Varsinais Suomi Antiaircraft Regiment. The development project is being directed by Major General Hannu Sarkio, the commander of the Turku-Pori military province. According to Sarkio, the reason for the experiment is the ever more critical assessment of the training by the conscripts themselves. The Armed Forces have also become concerned that an increasing number of conscripts are prematurely terminating their tour of duty. Last year as many as 8 percent of the age group terminated their tour of duty prematurely. The shortening of the alternative civilian service option also appears attractive to increasing numbers of youth, according to Sarkio. In Sarkio's opinion, the training could be made more efficient. This might decrease the number of premature terminations. Sarkio feels that the training should not be interrupted by factors like "the drill instructors are no fun" and they "raise the hackles of the conscripts." If the drill instructor does not have respect, then Sarkio feels "something must be done." "Exhausted or weary instructors, who just cannot get it done anymore, could get transfers to duties in, for example, headquarters, maintenance, and administration," says Sarkio.
