FBIS4-10124 "drlat067_k_94001" FBIS-LAT-94-067 Daily Report 6 Apr 1994 SOUTH AMERICA Argentina Patents Law `Credential' for Negotiating Tariffs With U.S. Patents Law `Credential' for Negotiating Tariffs With U.S. PY0704022094 Buenos Aires NOTICIAS ARGENTINAS in Spanish 2237 GMT 6 Apr 94 PY0704022094 Buenos Aires NOTICIAS ARGENTINAS Spanish BFN [Text] Buenos Aires, 6 Apr (NA) -- Economy Minister Domingo Cavallo said today that the approval of the Patents Law is "a credential in the negotiations with the U.S. Government to get it to modify the extremely closed tariff stance it has with Argentina." Cavallo complained that while Argentina is "extremely open to the United States, it is extremely closed to us in tariff and rates matters." He stressed it is "fundamental" that the Patents Law be used as a lever in the negotiation of a bilateral trade relation with the United States, and "no ground must be given regarding future sanctions." "It is very important for them that it can be considered as a credential in the negotiations," the minister reiterated during the luncheon he had with an organization of business people. The economy minister warned that if negotiations with the U.S. Government are successful, the norm for acknowledging the intellectual rights of U.S. laboratories "will have to be made within the framework of GATT." This is precisely the measure that is being demanded by the national enterprises grouped within the Industrial Center of Argentine Pharmaceutical Laboratories (CILFA), something the foreign companies, represented in this case by the U.S. Embassy with James Cheek at its head, wish to prevent. The minister hopes that the approval of the Patents Law, which is sleeping in Congress, will be the "key" to unfreeze trade relations. Cavallo then referred to Brazil and stated that trade relations with the neighboring country are "as important as those with as those with the United States." Moreover, he confessed that the Argentine Government "slipped up when it negotiated a free trade" [zone], referring to the Mercosur [Common Market of the South] Treaty, and he said: "There was no need to achieve a customs union." Notwithstanding, he expressed his happiness in that "the Brazilians are quite realistic and have come to the conclusion that free trade is not yet feasible." As a detail to support his position, the minister maintained that many Europeans are "more skeptical about their monetary and economic union."
