FBIS4-24548 "drchi104_w_94007" FBIS-CHI-94-104 Daily Report 31 May 1994 HONG KONG & MACAO Hong Kong March Held Commemorating Tiananmen Massacre March Held Commemorating Tiananmen Massacre Accuse Police of `Abusing Powers' HK3105070794 Hong Kong HONGKONG STANDARD in English 31 May 94 p 3 HK3105070794 Hong Kong HONGKONG STANDARD English BFN [By Flora Wong] [Text] Police abused their discretionary right to ban petitions composed of unspecified materials during Sunday's demonstration outside the Xinhua News Agency, representatives of the Hong Kong Alliance in Support of the Patriotic Democratic Movement in China said yesterday. Police clashed with a small number of demonstrators outside the Xinhua building when they tried to prevent Alliance members from placing a wreath and a banner in front of the entrance. A police spokesman defended their decision as one of "safety" and "to minimise inconvenience to the public". And Governor Chris Patten defended the police, saying they behaved with a "good degree of tact." "These are not easy matters for the police, but I think from all I've heard... they behaved sensibly. Freedom of speech and freedom of assembly are guaranteed under the Joint Declaration and we'll certainly do everything we can before 1997 to ensure the foundations for those freedoms are as secured as possible." Alliance spokesman and United Democrat legislator Cheung Man-kwong said bringing along items in addition to the letter which was specified in the condition for the permit was a usual practice. He said that last year the group set five flags in front of the Xinhua building without any harassment from police. Mr Cheung said he was told Xinhua had expressed unhappiness over having items placed in front of its entrance. "The police have used their discretion to bow to the authorities," he said. Asked whether items used in petitions should be specified in conditions for permits Mr Cheung said it would be "absurd" to go into such detail. A police spokesman said the primary concern was the safety of demonstrators the public. "Those attending processions and demonstrations must heed police advice and directions for their own safety and to minimise inconvenience to other members of the public," he said.
