FBIS4-933 "drafr076_c_94018" FBIS-AFR-94-076 Daily Report 20 Jan 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA ANC Issues Statement on Shooting ANC Issues Statement on Shooting MB2004065994 Johannesburg SAPA in English 0159 GMT 20 Jan 94 MB2004065994 Johannesburg SAPA English BFN [Statement by the ANC on the SAPA PR Wire Service on 20 April] [Text] ANC PWV [Pretoria, Witwatersrand, Vereeniging] region premier-elect Tokyo Sexwale and two officials, Paul Mashatile -- secretary general and Obed Bapela -- deputy secretary general, came under heavy gunfire today, Tuesday, 19 April, after addressing residents at the National Peacekeeping Force (NPKF) base in Thokoza. Sexwale had earlier led a delegation of ANC PWV regional leaders and local leadership of Thokoza on a fact-finding mission and to address residents of the trouble-torn township. After addressing residents at about 16h00, the entourage moved to the NPKF base to verify residents allegations that the force's image was no longer credible. The entourage, led by Mr Sexwale held a meeting with the second in command of the force and discussed the problems raised by the community. Soon thereafter, Mr Sexwale addressed residents inside the base and seconds after this address, heavy gun-fire was heard from the direction of the hostel next to the base. Officials, including Mr Sexwale, were forced to take cover and swiftly went to their cars to get out of the area. The ANC PWV region condemns this senseless attacks on its leadership, whose sole purpose in the area was to difuse the volatile situation in the area. Our visit in the area was also to call for joint co-operation of forces now in the area -- SADF [South African Defense Force] and NPKF -- and to listen to the grievances of both the community and the NPKF personnel. The ANC will pursue, with all means at its disposal, to find resolution to the carnage that has engulfed the area and to ensure that free and fair elections takes place. The ANC PWV region will release a statement tomorrow, 20 April 1994, on its plans and intervention to stop the carnage in the East Rand.
