FBIS3-54284 "drnes016yy_94005" FBIS-NES-94-016 Document Type:Daily Report 25 January 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Arab-Israeli Talks 12th Round Peace Talks Open in Washington First Session Held JN2501074394 Amman Radio Jordan Network in Arabic 0500 GMT 25 Jan 94 JN2501074394 Amman Radio Jordan Network Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Text] A new round of Arab-Israeli peace negotiations, the first since last September, began in Washington last night. No information was released on the first session of these talks. Details are in the following report: For the first time since the start of the Arab-Israeli peace talks in Washington two years ago, these negotiations are being held outside the U.S. State Department headquarters, at an unspecified venue, amid total secrecy and away from the media. Only the heads of the Jordanian, Syrian, Lebanese, Palestinian, and Israeli delegations participated. Their movements were also kept secret. The U.S. State Department said only that the negotiations were held about 1.5 km north of the State Department in the hotel district. A U.S. State Department spokeswoman said that the talks will achieve better results if there is emphasis on the need to put progress ahead of publicity. She added that this form of negotiations allows the parties to explore each other's views in a totally calm manner. The only statement about last night's session came from Itamar Rabinovich, head of the Israeli delegation to the negotiations with Syria. He said the first meeting with the Syrians was held in a serious and positive atmosphere, adding that he got the impression that the two sides are hoping to achieve progress. However, he said, they also have a lot of work to do and it is not possible to expect a breakthrough soon. Asked about the United States' role, the State Department spokeswoman said that the Americans held regular dialogue with the concerned parties on resuming these talks, and they will definitely be ready to hold new talks and discussions.
