FBIS3-59177 "drweu018__a94001" FBIS-WEU-94-018-A Document Type:Daily Report 27 January 1994 ANNEX International Affairs Disarmament Conference Opens in Geneva BR2601155894 Bern ATSA/SDAA in French 1623 GMT 25 Jan 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY BR2601155894 Bern ATSA/SDAA Language: French Article Type:BFN [Unaattributed article: "Disarmament Conference in Geneva: The Way to Nuclear Test Ban"; as released by Bern ATSA/SDAA database] [Text] Geneva, 25 Jan (ATSA) -- The opening of talks on a nuclear test ban marked the resumption of the Conference on Disarmament in Geneva on Tuesday [25 January]. The United States, which refused Iraqi participation in the conference, joined France in criticizing the "nuclear ambitions" of North Korea. In a message to the Conference on Disarmament, U.S. President Clinton underlined on Tuesday that "the first priority" is to quickly conclude a treaty on a complete ban of all nuclear tests. This objective was made possible in light of the consensus reached among the five recognized nuclear powers (China, United States, France, Great Britain, and Russia) in 1993. However, French Ambassador Gerard Errera, who was elected conference president, noted that "it is hardly conceivable that the five powers will agree to impose new constraints on themselves if other countries remain free to develop clandestine nuclear armament programs." North Korea Condemned Ambassador Errera denounced the refusal by North Korea to "meet its international commitments in the field of nonproliferation." That country is opposed to the inspection of facilities which are suspected of engaging in the development of atomic bombs. John Holum, director of the U.S. Disarmament Agency, mentioned the possibility of a nuclear arms race in the Middle East and between India and Pakistan, but he also pointed out the progress made in Latin America and Africa in this regard. Enlargement An issue to be solved is the enlargement of the membership of the Conference on Disarmament (currently 37 states), so as to allow a better regional breakdown and to include "threshold countries" which have the capability of acquiring the nuclear bomb. The United States recalled on Tuesday that it did not oppose an application by North Korea. It turned down Iraq's request, however, as that country is under UN Security Council sanctions and "disregards" UN resolutions.
