FBIS4-60732 "drnes103_k_94008" FBIS-NES-94-103 Daily Report 26 May 1994 IRAQ Aims of U.S. Assistance to Israel, Egypt Questioned Aims of U.S. Assistance to Israel, Egypt Questioned JN2605091594 Baghdad INA in Arabic 0635 GMT 26 May 94 JN2605091594 Baghdad INA Arabic BFN [Text] Baghdad, 26 May (INA) -- AL-THAWRAH has questioned the meaning of Washington's allocation in its foreign assistance program of $3 billion to the Zionist entity and $2.1 billion to the Egyptian regime. In an article published today, the newspaper, organ of the Arab Socialist Ba'th Party, said the declared and undeclared U.S. assistance to the Zionist entity, whether the material, military, or political assistance, emphasizes that their relationship is not a provisional alliance but a deep and active strategic alliance. As for what Washington offers the Egyptian regime, it is no more than an illusion and a lie. The paper adds: This assistance to Mubarak's regime is not free, but aims to increase Egypt's dependence and its involvement in policies and positions that are totally against the Arab interest. The newspaper emphasizes that the U.S. assistance to the Mubarak regime amounts to no more than shackles to increase dependence, and subsequently becoming led by the objectives and designs of the United States in the region at the expense of the Egyptian people, in the first place, and the Arab region and its aspirations for liberation and progress. The newspaper stresses that the Egyptian regime, which has practiced all dirty means and declared its full bias toward anything that serves the U.S. policy in the region, offered a great deal in order to receive more assistance and sympathy. This regime thought it was the first candidate to become the favorite of the U.S. Administration. This regime intentionally ignored the fact that Tel Aviv is not Cairo, and that in the field of service or expertise, this regime is only a small worker, who has a specific role that eventually serves the Zionist interest. Concluding its article, the newspaper asks: Are these people aware of the swamp in which they have placed themselves?
