FBIS4-42117 "drweu104_o_94009" FBIS-WEU-94-104 Daily Report 31 May 1994 CYPRUS Denktas Requests Inclusion of Vienna Asssurances Denktas Requests Inclusion of Vienna Asssurances TA3105110994 Nicosia Bayrak Radio in Turkish 0500 GMT 31 May 94 TA3105110994 Nicosia Bayrak Radio Turkish BFN [Text] President Rauf Denktas has declared that if the promises made to the Turkish Cypriot side in Vienna are incorporated into the 21 March document, the Turkish Cypriots can make a healthier and more positive decision on the subject. The Council of Ministers met in an extraordinary session under the chairmanship of Denktas last night and discussed the confidence-building measures package and the nondocument document of 21 March. Denktas issued a statement at the end of the meeting, which began at 2015 and lasted two hours and 40 minutes. In his statement, Denktas reported that he briefed the Council of Ministers on his contacts in Turkey and said that a good discussion was held at the meeting. Noting that he must call and meet with Gustave Feissel, the UN secretary general's assistant special envoy in Cyprus, Denktas said: We have now reached the point of whether the United Nations will incorporate the promises made to us in Vienna into the 21 March document by editing the document. Denktas stated that the Turkish Cypriot side will be able to see the future in a clearer way after the meeting with Feissel. Answering a question on what will happen if the UN secretary general issues his report, Denktas said this is also a matter of luck. Asked if the Turkish Cypriot side is ready to negotiate should the document be edited, Denktas responded: We have never been the side avoiding talks. Therefore, if the document is edited and the promises made to us are realized, our people and our government will naturally be able to make a healthier and more positive decision. In reply to another question, the president remarked that a special Republican Assembly meeting may be held in the next stage. The answers to various questions may be supplied after today, Denktas noted.
