FBIS3-14526 "drnes060_j_94003" FBIS-NES-94-060 Document Type:Daily Report 28 Mar 1994 ARABIAN PENINSULA Oman Pakistan's Bhutto Arrives for 3-Day Visit Talks With Sultan Detailed BK2803111994 Islamabad Radio Pakistan Network in Urdu 0200 GMT 28 Mar 94 BK2803111994 Islamabad Radio Pakistan Network Language: Urdu Article Type:BFN [Text] Pakistan and Oman have called for an early solution to the Kashmir problem and an end to the human rights violations in occupied Kashmir. During detailed discussions in Salalah on a wide range of issues, Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto and Omani Sultan Qabus Bin-Sa'id reviewed the latest situations in occupied Kashmir, Afghanistan, Palestine, and Bosnia, and reacted strongly to the atrocities being committed by Indian forces against the innocent Kashmiris. Expressing serious concern over the situation in Kashmir, Sultan Qabus Bin-Sa'id stressed the need for a solution to the Kashmir problem, which is in the best interests of both India and Pakistan. Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto apprised the Omani sultan of the latest situation in occupied Kashmir, saying Kashmir is the core issue between India and Pakistan and it needs to be resolved in accordance with the UN resolutions. As a first step in this direction, human rights violations in occupied Kashmir should be stopped to create a congenial atmosphere for meaningful negotiations. India, she said, should allow people from other countries to visit occupied Kashmir and assess the situation. The prime minister reiterated that an Islamic Conference Organization mission should be allowed to visit occupied Kashmir. During the talks, Benazir Bhutto suggested a more frequent exchange of views between Pakistan and Oman on regional and international issues. The two countries should lay the foundations for wider economic cooperation because there are many areas in which they can increase cooperation. Potential areas of cooperation include the delimitation of the maritime boundary; defense production; a gas pipeline project; joint ventures to establish chemical fertilizer plants; a ferry service between Karachi, Gwadar, and Oman; and the export of manpower from Pakistan to Oman. Radio Pakistan special correspondent Abdul Aziz Khan reports in his dispatch from Salalah that during their talks at the (Qasr-i al-Bosin), Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto and Sultan Qabus Bin-Sa'id discussed several agreements. The talks were held in the atmosphere of trust and goodwill that is traditionally found between the two neighboring countries. Our correspondent says the two leaders attached special importance to the expansion of fraternal relations between Pakistan and Oman and also reviewed the security arrangements in the Gulf and the current status of the Economic Cooperation Organization.
