FBIS3-11533 "drlat056_o_94003" FBIS-LAT-94-056 Document Type:Daily Report 15 Mar 1994 Colombia Conservative Party Gains 18 New Congressional Seats PA1903151394 Santa Fe de Bogota EL TIEMPO in Spanish 15 Mar 94 p 6a PA1903151394 Santa Fe de Bogota EL TIEMPO Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Excerpt] The Conservative Party gained 18 new congressional seats in Sunday's elections. Its number of Senate members rose from 22 to 31, and in the Chamber of Representatives, where up until now it had 50 representatives, it will now have 59. These results, added to the fact the party has been consolidated as the nation's second leading political force, are a cause of satisfaction for its directors, and it has them thinking once again that the possibility of attaining the Presidency is very close. "We are united, and leadership under Andres Pastrana has generated enthusiasm among the voters. The results are now becoming evident," stated Eugenio Merlano, secretary general of the National Conservative Directorate [DNC]. He has also hailed the fact Fabio Valencia Cossio, conservative leader from Antioquia and one of Pastrana's main supporters, had obtained the second highest number of votes in the nation. The conservative leaders interpret this fact as a bow to the good work Antioquia Governor Juan Gomez Martinez and Medellin Mayor Luis Alfredo Ramos Botero are carrying out. The conservatives' optimism is based on the fact that almost all of their candidates were elected. All five candidates presented for the Senate by the New Democratic Force, a movement from which Andres Pastrana rose, were elected. The sole exception was the National Salvation Movement, which although it obtain two senate seats, only garnered one representative in the Chamber of Representatives. It was surprising that the parliamentaries closer to Andres Pastrana, including Fabio Valencia, were the ones who obtained some of the highest number of votes in the nation, as did Jorge Hernandez Restrepo, Claudia Blum, and Gustavo Galvis. [passage omitted]
