FBIS4-46342 "jptot024__l94019" JPRS-TOT-94-024-L JPRS Terrorism FOUO 6 June 1994 CHINA China Southern Airlines Flight Hijacked to Taiwan China Southern Airlines Flight Hijacked to Taiwan Hijacker Named OW0606162794 Taipei China Broadcasting Corporation News Network in Mandarin 1400 GMT 6 Jun 94 OW0606162794 Taipei China Broadcasting Corporation News Network Mandarin BFN [Excerpts] [passage omitted] According to preliminary reports, the plane was hijacked by a 36-year-old man (Chou Wen-chiang), using a carving knife and a flash light. The airport police have taken him from the plane for investigation. It was initially determined that there were no accomplices. During the interrogation, (Chou Wen-chiang) said he was born in [words indistinct] in 1958 and was a resident of Guangdong's Lien County. He has a heart ailment [words indistinct]. He said he hijacked the plane because he was dissatisfied with his low pay of only a few dozen yuan a month, and he received a compensation of only 8,000 yuan after his elder sister was killed by an unlicensed driver. According to the Ministry of Defense spokesman, the plane, which was hijacked at 1920, gave the signal at 1924 that it had been hijacked. While our military and radar placed the plane under close surveillance, two F5-E fighter jets took off from the Chiayi Airport to intercept it. The fighters intercepted the plane at 1939 and guided it to a safe landing at the Chiang Kai-shek Airport at 1956. [passage omitted] Meanwhile, Minister Wu Po-hsiung, chairman of the Executive Yuan panel in charge of affairs about hijacking, indicated that the case will be handled according to the principle that the hijacker and the plane will be handled separately. He said the plane, after being routinely checked, will be allowed to fly to its original destination, but the hijacker will be turned over to judicial authorities for handling. He reiterated that while the government is firmly against any plane hijacking and will strictly punish any hijackers, relevant Chinese communist authorities should strengthen their security checks to forestall any hijacking attempts. He added that the hijacker will be repatriated after the Straits Exchange Foundation [SEF] has consultated the Association of Relations Across the Taiwan Straits [ARATS] and reached a common understanding with the latter. He said the hijacker will never be be allowed to stay in Taiwan. As usual, the SEF has immediately notified ARATS on the procedures that will be taken for the repatriation of the hijacker. [passage omitted on previous hijacking incidents]
