FBIS4-9415 "dreeu080_p_94010" FBIS-EEU-94-080 Daily Report 25 Apr 1994 POLAND PSL Council Views Concordat, Economy PSL Council Views Concordat, Economy WS2504092094 Warsaw NOWA EUROPA in Polish 25 Apr 94 p 2 WS2504092094 Warsaw NOWA EUROPA Polish BFN [Unattributed report: "Prime Minister on Economic Growth; PSL Chief Council Session"] [Text] On 23 April the Chief Council of the Polish Peasant Party [PSL] spoke out in favor of a treaty concluded between Poland and the Holy See in 1993. The council also expressed its conviction that the June elections to gmina [small administrative units] councils will be the most important political event that will enable the establishment of representative authorities for the next four years. Prime Minister Waldemar Pawlak informed the meeting's participants that the inflation level did not exceed 5 percent in the first quarter of this year, which means it was the lowest level in seven years. During the same time frame, output rose by 10 percent. The resolution states that the concordat regulates relations between two subjects of international law--that is, Poland and the Vatican--by defining general rules for cooperation between church and state. Aleksander Bentkowski reminded the participants that, in the document, both parties recognized each other's internal legal provisions and obliged themselves to respect those provisions. The resolution regarding the document was adopted by an overwhelming majority of votes, and it was also stressed that the PSL regards it as harmful to introduce disputes on the concordat into political campaigns and that that is why the council spoke in favor of an accelerated rate of proceedings to ratify the concordat. "The economic indicators are optimistic, and, from an economic standpoint, the situation is quite good," the prime minister said. In the opinion of the government's chief, after an analysis of wages and salaries in the first quarter, there are no reasons for concern. As Pawlak reported, wages and salaries in March rose by about 14 percent and 8.8 percent, without taking into account salaries from profit [not further specified]. "And we should keep in mind that, in terms of time, March is 12 percent longer than February," the prime minister stressed. W. Pawlak expressed his hope that talks will be initiated between the government and the striking miners, and that the problem will be solved to the employees' advantage.
