FBIS3-45773 "drchi016_l_94003" FBIS-CHI-94-016 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Jan 1994 Science & Technology Great Wall Corporation Signs Satellite Agreement Head Views U.S. Sanctions HK1801153794 Beijing ZHONGGUO XINWEN SHE in Chinese 1331 GMT 18 Jan 94 HK1801153794 Beijing ZHONGGUO XINWEN SHE Language: Chinese Article Type:BFN [By correspondent Zhang Hongtou (1728 3163 3447)] [Text] Beijing, 18 Jan (ZHONGGUO XINWEN SHE)-- Mr. Zhang Tong, president of the China Great Wall Industry Corporation, said today that there is no reason to continue sanctions on his company by the United States and that he regrets this. Zhang Tong said this to reporters after a signing ceremony held here between the China Great Wall Industry Corporation and Asia-Pacific Satellite Telecommunications Company on a commercial launch service for the Asia-Pacific Sat-2 satellite, saying that the China Great Wall Industry Corporation's commercial launch services for international satellite clients are a useful supplement to the international satellite launching market and provide options for international satellite users. He said that we welcome the U.S. Government's recent announcement to lift the ban on three satellites that will be launched by China, though regrettably this did not include the sanctions on the China Great Wall Industry Corporation. With the imminent dissolution of COCOM [Coordinating Committee for Multilateral Export Controls], the U.S. Government should adjust its current space policy, issue other satellite permits, and revoke sanctions on the corporation. This would not only benefit international clients, but would also protect the interests of U.S. satellite makers. Furthermore, he said, with the expiration at the end of this year of the memorandum on commercial launch services and international trade problems signed between the Chinese and U.S. Governments in 1989, we hope that the U.S. and Chinese Governments can begin talks on the issue of extending the memorandum as soon as possible in order to facilitate a good environment for normal space trade between the two countries. Zhang Tong revealed that since China announced the introduction of its self-made Long March carrier rocket series to the international market in 1985, the corporation, in joint efforts with its domestic partners -- namely the Research Institute of Carrier Rocket Technology, which researches and produces rockets, and the China Satellite Launch Detection and Control System Department, which takes charge of launch operations, detection, and control -- has steadily eased, after years of arduous work, China's carrier rockets into the international commercial satellite launching service market. The Great Wall Industry Corporation has successfully launched many satellites for international clients. Other launch services under contract include the International Communications Satellite 7A, Asia-Pacific Sat-1, Asiasat 2, Iridium and Echo Satellites, and a resources satellite in cooperation with Brazil. As it has done in the past, the China Great Wall Industry Corporation will, with its good reputation and quality work, offer its clients reliable services.
