FBIS3-31175 "dreeu030__a94036" FBIS-EEU-94-030-A Document Type:Daily Report 14 February 1994 ANNEX Slovakia French Officials Discuss `Balladur Plan' AU1002181194 Prague CTK in English 1509 GMT 10 Feb 94 AU1002181194 Prague CTK Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Bratislava, Feb 10 (CTK) -- After a meeting between Slovak representatives and a group of senior officials of the French cabinet today, Slovak Deputy Prime Minister Jozef Prokes expressed himself for creating such security guarantees in Europe which would prevent possible destabilization in case of a crisis situation. At the meeting, the aides of French Prime Minister Edouard Balladur, currently visiting Slovakia, discussed the questions of European stability and the preparation of a conference on the issue to be held in Paris at the end of May, said Bernard de Monteferrand, Balladur's diplomatic adviser, and Thierry Dan, the adviser for strategic affairs. Prokes said that "the opening of Western European markets will be the best aid for Slovakia," adding that European stability and the economic situation were interlinked. Prokes also praised creating the basis of stability at the bilateral level. However, he said, it would not be suitable to draft different models for Western European countries and for Central European states, as originally suggested in the Balladur Plan. Solution to ethnic minorities' status within the Balladur Plan cannot take into account the present situation alone, regardless of historical developments. "If the first is done, those countries could get advantage, which have got rid of their ethnic minorities," Prokes stressed. He said the French guests admitted that first it was necessary to recongnise the principle of unalterability of borders, and only then to solve ethnic minority problems. The Balladur Plan, now a joint initiative of the European Union, was conceived as a "preventative security" system directed toward countries having difficulty re-orienting themselves in postcommunist Europe. It is based on the ideas of the unalterability of state borders and individual rights for members of national minorities. As discussed by Slovak hosts and French guests on Wednesday, applying the plan involves inviting to a May 26-27 conference in Paris those states which are considered front-runners for European Union membership. This means in particular the members of the Visegrad Group -- the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, and Poland.
