FBIS4-9436 "dreeu080__a94005" FBIS-EEU-94-080-A Daily Report 24 Apr 1994 ANNEX International Affairs Further Reportage on Crans Montana Forum Further Reportage on Crans Montana Forum Forum Seen as `Unique Experience' AU2404182894 Bucharest ROMPRES in English 1543 GMT 24 Apr 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY AU2404182894 Bucharest ROMPRES English BFN [Text] Bucharest ROMPRES, 24/4/1994 -- The works of the Crans Montana Forum conference with "The Emerging Markets" as the general theme ended on Sunday, April 24, at noon, in Bucharest at the Romanian Parliament Palace. The closing session was attended and addressed by Romanian President Ion Iliescu, by the president of the Forum Foundation Jean Paul Carteron as well as by Bernard de Montferrand, special envoy of the French prime minister. The four-day conference has gathered in plenary or topical sessions about 1,800 delegates from all over the world. It was an occasion for useful exchanges of opinions with regard to current political and economic issues as well as for many business contacts. In his address, Crans Montana Forum President Jean Paul Carteron expressed his respect and admiration for the Romanian organisers of the conference and underscored the "resounding success" of the conference which, in his opinion, enabled the approaching of several stringent issues of the current economic and political international life. The Forum Foundation president added that the conference gave also the image of Romania as of a country with large possibilities and at the same time with a significant role in the international life. The hands shaking by 'Arafat, Peres and Iliescu represented Romania's come back on the world politics scene, said Carteron. If Romania needs the world, now it is clear that the world, too, needs Romania, said Jean Paul Carteron. In his address, the envoy of the French prime minister Bernard de Montferrand conveyed a proposal by Premier Edouard Balladur calling for the achievement of a pact of stability in Europe expressing the European countries' willingness to observe and promote the values of civilization and the principles of freedom which were born on this continent. In his turn, Romanian President Ion Iliescu said that the Forum meeting in Bucharest had been a genuine forum of ideas, debates, contacts among a large number of politicians and personalities of the economic life from all over the world. The meeting was a unique experience through the possibility created for a large number of political and economic decision-makers to have useful exchanges of ideas along the four days of the conference, to have contacts and to establish immediate or future actions aiming to solve several problems confronting the international community, to establish new advantageous collaborations, said President Ion Iliescu. Through this conference, Bucharest has joined in the system of organising international meetings and the decision of establishing here of an international conference center confirms this course, said President Iliescu.
