FBIS4-49842 "drchi091_k_94009" FBIS-CHI-94-091 Daily Report 10 May 1994 NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political & Social Deng Pufang Speaks to Press on Humanitarianism, Rights Deng Pufang Speaks to Press on Humanitarianism, Rights Expresses Desire To Visit Taiwan OW1105014694 Beijing Central Television Program One Network in Mandarin 1430 GMT 10 May 94 OW1105014694 Beijing Central Television Program One Network in Mandarin 1430 GMT 10 May 94 Mandarin BFN [News conference by Deng Pufang, president of the Chinese Federation for the Disabled and chairman of the Preparatory Committee for the Sixth Far East and South Pacific Games for the Disabled; Zhang Baifa, executive vice chairman of the preparatory committee and vice mayor of Beijing; and Wan Siquan, secretary general of the preparatory committee, with foreign and domestic correspondents in Beijing on 10 May, hosted by the State Council Information Office -- recorded] [Excerpt] [passage omitted] [Announcer] A ZHONGGUO XINWEN SHE correspondent asked Deng Pufang for his comments about the first gathering in Beijing of disabled athletes from both sides of the Taiwan Straits as well as from Hong Kong and Macao. [Deng] Both comrades from the Preparatory Committee and myself are delighted that athletes from Hong Kong, Macao, and Taiwan will be participating in the games. On the one hand, the Preparatory Committee will try its best to serve them and make them feel at home. On the other, I wish them good results. I shall be as delighted if they achieve good results as I shall be if mainland- based disabled athletes do the same. [Announcer] Taibei's [Taipei] CENTRAL NEWS AGENCY would like to ask Deng two questions. The first is whether you have any plans to visit Taiwan in the near future. The second is what expectations you have regarding exchanges between disabled athletes from the two sides of the Taiwan Straits. [Deng] I very much hope to visit Taiwan because Taiwan is part of China's territory. I am now seeking an opportunity to visit. Once conditions are right, I will definitely visit Taiwan. We also have had many contacts with Taiwan's disabled in recent years. We will continue such contacts and exchanges. In my opinion, contacts between the disabled are least susceptible to interference and influence from other factors. My disabled friends in Taiwan and myself share this common understanding and wish. [passage omitted]
