FBIS4-36903 "drnes115_j_94001" FBIS-NES-94-115 Daily Report 14 Jun 1994 ARABIAN PENINSULA Yemen Al-Bid, UN's Brahimi Discuss Crisis, Cease-Fire Al-Bid, UN's Brahimi Discuss Crisis, Cease-Fire EA1406192694 Aden Democratic Republic of Yemen Radio Network in Arabic 1500 GMT 14 Jun 94 EA1406192694 Aden Democratic Republic of Yemen Radio Network in Arabic 1500 GMT 14 Jun 94 Arabic BFN [Text] Brother 'Ali Salim al-Bid, the chairman of the Presidential Council, received in al-Mukalla yesterday Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi, the envoy of the UN secretary general, with whom he discussed developments affecting the situation in the Yemeni arena and the UN envoy's efforts to bring about the implementation of UN Security Council Resolution No. 924 calling for an immediate cease-fire and talks between the conflicting sides. Brother al-Bid very warmly welcomed Mr. Brahimi to our country and expressed appreciation for the role he was performing toward rescuing Yemen from the calamity now afflicting its people. The brother chairman of the Presidential Council reiterated Democratic Yemen's position from which it was calling for an immediate cease-fire and implementation of the UN Security Council's resolution for the sake of the national interest and in response to the international will. He stressed that our country and people had rejected the principle of solving differences by resorting to arms. He briefed the UN envoy on the efforts made and continuing to be made by our political leadership to shield the Yemeni people from the suffering inflicted on them daily as the result of this war which 'Ali 'Abdallah Salih and the al-Ahmar gang had imposed on our people. For his part, Lakhdar Brahimi reiterated the hope that the conflicting parties would observe the cease-fire resolution. He also briefed the brother chairman of the Presidential Council on the results of his meetings with the Sanaa leadership. The meeting was attended by brothers Haydar Abu-Bakr al-'Attas, the prime minister; Muhsin Muhammad Abu-Bakr Bin-Farid, deputy prime minister and minister of planning and development; and 'Abdallah al-Asnaj, deputy prime minister and foreign minister.
