FBIS3-10163 "drlat041_t_94006" FBIS-LAT-94-041 Document Type:Daily Report 2 Mar 1994 Venezuela Suspension of Economic Guarantees Termed `Temporary' PA0103204894 Caracas Venezolana de Television Network in Spanish 2350 GMT 28 Feb 94 PA0103204894 Caracas Venezolana de Television Network Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [From "The News" newscast] [Text] Jose Ignacio Moreno Leon, the adviser to the finance minister, has stated that the suspension of economic guarantees is temporary. He also referred to objections raised by the World Bank and explained that these are not a result of the steps taken by the national government. Moreno Leon said the measure to eliminate the VAT [value-added tax] cannot be described as confusing because, no matter what, the government will submit to Congress in the next few days a bill establishing a tax on luxury items and wholesale goods. These are measures that will replace the VAT while the implementation of the VAT on wholesale goods continues. Moreno Leon added that the idea is to establish a modern tax structure that will allow the nation to close the fiscal gap, put an end to the spiraling inflation rate, and, ultimately, reduce the inflation rate. In terms of rates for bank debits, the idea is to implement a 2-percent rate, but with a 31 December time limit because the rate would eventually be replaced by a rate outlined within the new income tax law. He concluded by noting that the state will fulfill its role of safeguarding the common good, which is a duty that cannot be delegated. The government views economic development as a goal of social justice. [Begin Moreno Leon recording] The government has been given greater flexibility to continue to modernize the economy, while attempting, as its main objective, to help the country as a whole, rejecting the creation of special privileges. The government must fight those who distort the market in order to make the development that results from modernization one based on social justice. [end recording] In conclusion, the adviser said that currency control has been ruled out completely.
