FBIS3-41184 "jptdd006__l94051" JPRS-TDD-94-006-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Narcotics 7 February 1994 NEAR EAST & SOUTH ASIA PAKISTAN Task Force Leader Sends Prime Minister List of 160 `International' Drug Smugglers 94WD0099E Peshawar MASHRIQ in Urdu 5 Nov 93 p 3 94WD0099E Peshawar MASHRIQ Language: Urdu Article Type:CSO [News Report: "The Arrest of 160 International Drug Smugglers Ordered; the List of Criminals Includes Prominent Politicians; General Termazi Has Been Issued Instructions; Owners of Heroin Factories Are Selling Their Left-Over Stock at Bargain Prices; Transfer of Furniture to Foreign Locations."] [Text] According to a report published in a Lahore Urdu-language newspaper, General Termazi, the leader of the special task force appointed by the government, has sent the prime minister a list of 160 international drug smugglers. The majority are individuals who play central roles in Pakistani politics. According to sources, the prime minister has instructed General Termazi to place these "big fish" under immediate arrest and bring them to trial in the high courts. Reportedly General Termazi has met with high officials and informed them of the situation. Meanwhile, as a result of the activities of the Special Task Force, the owners of heroin factories on the Toor Kham Kabul border are selling their heroin at cheap prices. Most well-known heroin dealers have moved their factories and themselves to Afghanistan in order to stay beyond the reach of the Task Force. According to informed sources, Ayub Afridi, the drug king, is sending all his furniture to Switzerland, and has gone into hiding. Ayub Afridi is wanted by Interpol in several drug smuggling cases. Several other drug dealers, some of whom are women who observe purdah [veil], have ordered their agents to cease operations and to go underground temporarily. It has also been learned that, in its initial activity, the Task Force arrested a number of agents working for drug sellers, and is interrogating them in secret locations.
