FBIS3-30009 "dreas037_a_94017" FBIS-EAS-94-037 Document Type:Daily Report 24 February 1994 NORTHEAST ASIA Japan Yokomichi Holds `Secret' Talks OW2402000294 Tokyo KYODO in English 2324 GMT 23 Feb 94 OW2402000294 Tokyo KYODO Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Tokyo, Feb. 24 KYODO -- A popular provincial governor is set to return to the national stage as a leading member of a planned new liberal party, sources in the ruling coalition said Thursday [24 February]. Takahiro Yokomichi, governor of Hokkaido in northern Japan, held secret talks with a cabinet minister Wednesday night on forming a new party that would involve a merger with the largest party in the coalition government, they said. Yokomichi agreed in the meeting with Science and Technology Agency Chief Satsuki Eda to start preparations to form the new party with the Social Democratic Party (SDP) as its core, they said. Yokomichi, a former SDP member of the House of Representatives, told Eda, leader of the United Social Democratic Party, at the meeting in Tokyo that he is willing to run for a Diet seat in the next general election, they said. He had already received a positive response to the idea of a new party from SDP Chairman Tomiichi Murayama and its secretary general, Wataru Kubo, the sources said. Yokomichi met with Kubo and Chief Cabinet Secretary Masayoshi Takemura, leader of Sakigake (Harbinger), on February 12 and agreed to form a unified parliamentary group among the SDP, Sakigake and the Democratic Socialist Party, they said. Yokomichi, dubbed the "prince of the SDP," was elected to the Diet four times from 1969 and has been elected Hokkaido governor three times since 1983. Shinseito and Komeito want a two-party system in which the seven coalition parties would merge into a single party, but the SDP and Sakigake prefer a moderate multiparty system. Meanwhile, the ASAHI SHIMBUN reported Thursday that the SDP, the DSP and Sakigake have agreed to start regular consultations to strengthen ties among them.
