FBIS3-37939 "drsov037_r_94001" FBIS-SOV-94-037 Document Type:Daily Report 24 Feb 1994 CAUCASUS Azerbaijan Aliyev Meets John Major, Speaks at Royal Institute LD2302231194 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 2159 GMT 23 Feb 94 LD2302231194 Moscow ITAR-TASS Language: English Article Type:BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Viktor Solomon] [Text] London February 23 TASS -- "I am very pleased with my visit and hope that it will be successfully completed," said Azeri President Geydar Aliyev in Wednesday night, addressing the British Royal Institute of International Relations. Aliyev is currently on an official visit to Great Britain at the invitation of the British Government. Aliyev said that on Tuesday, he had talks with representatives of different British companies and British entrepreneurs. On Wednesday, Aliyev met with British Prime Minister John Major. "The talks were held in a friendly atmosphere and I believe that they were a success," Aliyev said. During the talks the sides signed a number of bilateral documents, and the most important is a declaration on friendship and cooperation between the two countries. Aliyev pointed out that it was the first visit of the Azeri president to Great Britain. "We attach great importance to the visit since we look upon Great Britain as a country which has a great political weight on in the international arena, long-standing traditions and which plays an important role in the world economy," Aliyev said. The Azeri president called upon British and international companies to develop mutually advantageous cooperation with Azerbaijan, which possesses not only oil, but other valuable mineral resources. The Azeri president promised to give investment guarantees from the Azeri Government and the president. Aliyev pointed out that Azerbaijan had given up Communist ideology, socialist economy adding that there would be no return to the past. The Azeri president said that it is ready to develop relations of equality with all countries, attaching special importance to relations with neighboring countries. "We have normal relations with Russia, Turkey, Iran, Georgia," the Azeri president said. Aliyev paid particular attention to the armed conflict around Nagorno-Karabakh. He accused Armenia of aggressive intentions. "However, we have not taken an aggressive and intolerant stand and believes that the two neighboring countries can live in peace and accord as it was in the recent past. Azerbaijan firmly abides by the principle of the peaceful solution of the conflict and believes that the United Nations and the U.N. Security Council, the CSCE Minsk Group and such leading countries as Russia, the United States and Great Britain can make a tangible contribution to the peaceful settlement."
