FBIS3-39246 "drweu031__a94030" FBIS-WEU-94-031-A Document Type:Daily Report 15 Feb 1994 ANNEX Spain * PP Supports Troop Withdrawal From Bosnia 94ES0239A Madrid EL PAIS in Spanish 19 Jan 94 p 16--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 94ES0239A Madrid EL PAIS Language: Spanish Article Type:CSO [Article: "People's Party Calls For Withdrawal of Spanish `Blue Helmets' from Bosnia"] [Text] The military affairs spokesman for the People's Party [PP], Santiago Lopez Valdivielso, yesterday said his parliamentary group will ask that the government "not under any circumstances send more troops to replace our forces" in Bosnia-Herzegovina, which amounts to asking for withdrawal of Spain's 1,200 blue helmets. The announcement reflects a change of position for the main opposition party, which until now was ambivalent on the issue. The current Spanish contingent, the third sent to the Balkans since October 1992, completes its six-month tour of duty in the zone on 23 March. The government has not decided whether to send fresh troops to relieve them, but the Army is preparing the Cordoba Group, composed of troops from the 21st Mechanized Brigade of the Brunete Armored Division, to replace the Madrid Group during the month of April. Lopez Valdivielso yesterday served notice of his group's opposition to the deployment of relief troops, alleging that the presence of the blue helmets, despite the "enormous professionalism, dedication, and valor" of Spanish soldiers, "serves more to keep the war going than to lessen the impact on the civilian population." "On numerous occasions, the blue helmets not only have been unable to impose their moral authority but have been subjected to almost insupportable humiliations," he added. According to the PP spokesman, "Spain's decision should be properly coordinated with the other European governments involved in the operation and announced immediately at the United Nations, so that if it is decided to maintain the blue helmet presence, there will be time to find other troops to replace the Spaniards." Ministry Replies Referring to a withdrawal of blue helmets, a spokesman for the Defense Ministry said yesterday that "Spain cannot make a decision of this kind unilaterally," and noted that the Spanish Government has announced its intention to "renew its deployment" of troops this spring if the parties concerned have not concluded a peace agreement by that time. The decision would be made in conjunction with the other Western governments that maintain large contingents in Bosnia (United Kingdom, France, and Canada). However, Minister Julian Garcia Vargas indicated on Monday [17 January] in Bonn (Germany) that he considers a reduction of UN troop levels in the former Yugoslav Republic more likely than withdrawal. Meanwhile, PP deputy Arsenio Fernandez of Mesa yesterday accused the government of "muzzling" the military service chiefs of staff by preventing them from appearing before Congress in closed session to report on Armed Forces operations. It will be Minister Garcia Vargas who reports to Congress behind closed doors on this subject.
