FBIS3-40380 "jpest004___94047" JPRS-EST-94-004 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Europe/International 4 February 1994 WEST EUROPE BIOTECHNOLOGY France: Albumin Production Abandoned 94WS0179B Paris L'USINE NOUVELLE in French 16 Dec 93 p 35 94WS0179B Paris L'USINE NOUVELLE Language: French Article Type:CSO [Article by Pierre Laperrousaz: "Medical: Merieux Gives Up Extraction of Placental Albumin; Genetic Engineering Does Not Deliver"--first paragraph is L'USINE NOUVELLE introduction] [Text] Genetically engineered albumin could rule out any risk of contamination. But the process is still too costly. The decision made by the Merieux Institute to stop the production of placental albumin should logically reawaken interest in recombinant albumin obtained through genetic engineering. The Merieux Institute, which had set up an original process using placentas collected throughout the world, had to stop production under the pressure of health authorities. The latter are in fact quite concerned about the risk of contamination by infectious agents, such as the one that causes the Creutzfeldt-Jakob syndrome in patients treated with growth hormone. In principle, using genetically engineered products will rule out any risk. The best example of this is precisely the growth hormone which, today, is exclusively of genetic origin. Why, then, not follow the same path for albumin? Rhone-Poulenc, in collaboration first with Genetica, then with Merieux, which since then has joined the group headed by Jean-Rene Fourtou, was among the first to think of it. Research was even sufficiently advanced to consider applying for an AMM [marketing authorization] by 1995-1996. Today, however, the group is questioning the feasibility of the process, and the project has been put on the backburner. Actually, manufacturing albumin by genetic engineering poses a fearsome industrialization problem, in particular at the product purification stage. "Compared with other recombinant products introduced in recent years, for instance tPA, we are working on a quite different scale because the quantities involved are much larger and the market price much lower," people at Merieux explained. The current world albumin production is 250-300 tons, eight percent of which is produced by Merieux. The product sells for 18 francs per gram and is used in quantities of several hundred grams per dose, whereas a recombinant drug sells for several thousand francs per gram but is administered in doses measured in micrograms. Does that mean that we should give up all hope of ever manufacturing genetically engineered albumin? Will the need for maximum security tip the scales in the right direction, as was the case for another blood product, the antihemophilic Factor 8, the first recombinant version of which was introduced on the market this year by the U.S. company Baxter? But it is true that this is another product used in infinitesimal doses.
