FBIS4-5847 "dreas072_n_94009" FBIS-EAS-94-072 Daily Report 14 Apr 1994 Vietnam Military Party Holds Midterm Party Conference Military Party Holds Midterm Party Conference BK1404072394 Hanoi Voice of Vietnam Network in Vietnamese 1400 GMT 14 Apr 94 BK1404072394 Hanoi Voice of Vietnam Network Vietnamese BFN [Text] Radio correspondent Le Thanh reports that the Hanoi Capital Military Region Party Committee [HCMRPP] held a mid-term party conference. The political report presented at the conference states that in the last three years, the HCMRPP has exerted many efforts to consolidate its force and improve its military form, thus creating an important foundation to work with other forces to maintain political stability in the capital. On that foundation, the awareness of function and duty in the entire party committee has been strengthened and deepened. Compared with the duty requirements, however, the Hanoi Capital Armed Force [HCAF] still has to improve its service quality. It must pay more attention to building an all-people national defense to match the market-oriented economy and broaden its external economic relation, which is still slow in its renovation undertaking. The political knowledge and ability of the HCAF are not on a par with its responsibility. Attending and addressing the conference, Senior Lieutenant General Le Kha Phieu, member of the Political Bureau and director of the Political General Department, hailed the efforts and achievements of the HCMRPP over the past two years and more. The general also repeated the requirements imposed on the HCMRPP in the coming period. First of all, the entire party committee must strive to improve its capacity and knowledge to match all requirements for a capital military region. Together with the upgrading of political ability, every cadre and party member must have complete knowledge and capacity to accomplish all entrusted duties. The entire party committee must satisfactorily complete its duty to build a regular armed force and to build the military region up to the trust of the armed forces in the entire country.
