FBIS4-7875 "dreeu067_b_94001" FBIS-EEU-94-067 Daily Report 7 Apr 1994 BULGARIA Berov Chairs Cabinet Session on Foreign Debt Berov Chairs Cabinet Session on Foreign Debt AU0704094994 Sofia Khorizont Radio Network in Bulgarian 0900 GMT 7 Apr 94 AU0704094994 Sofia Khorizont Radio Network Bulgarian BFN [Report by Kalina Stancheva on a meeting of Council of Ministers in Sofia on 7 April] [Text] After his month-long illness, Prime Minister Lyuben Berov appeared today at his workplace. The ministers marked this fact by drinking a glass of cognac to his health, and the prime minister thanked them for their efforts during his absence. In a meeting behind closed doors, the cabinet heard a report by Finance Minister Stoyan Aleksandrov, chairman of the Government Foreign Debt Commission, regarding the upcoming negotiations with the Paris Club, which a delegation will leave to attend on Tuesday [12 April]. The cabinet approved the position to be put forward by the Bulgarian delegation. No comment was made on the issue of personnel changes in the commission's membership following the resignations of two of its members. According to information obtained from the Council of Ministers, the changes will be made after Antonov and Kunchev have appeared before the cabinet to explain the motives for their resignations. Because of speculative increases in certain prices, the government decided to add another 12 items to the existing list of 11 kinds of goods and services monitored by the government. The government decided to follow the course of setting fixed prices for the sale of tobacco products on the domestic market. Keeping in mind the foreign exchange rate and the Customs Duties Act that has recently come into force, the maximum new price of (?45) leva for a pack of cigarettes will apply to imported Rothmans, Marlboro, and Kent cigarettes, while the Bulgarian brands Viktori and Welcome will cost 24 leva a pack, and cigarettes in normal packaging for mass consumption will cost between 7 and 12 leva. Following the introduction of the 18-percent VAT rate, domestic telephone calls will now cost private subscribers 90 stotinki per unit, and business subscribers -- 1.18 leva.
