FBIS3-11427 "drlat055_n_94001" FBIS-LAT-94-055 Document Type:Daily Report 21 Mar 1994 Chile Brazilian Envoy Clears `Doubts' About Trade Agreement PY2203004894 Madrid EFE in Spanish 1712 GMT 21 Mar 94 PY2203004894 Madrid EFE Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Text] Santiago de Chile, 21 Mar (EFE) -- Brazilian Ambassador to Chile Guilherme Leite-Ribeiro has said that Brazil is still interested in signing a commercial agreement with Chile, although one that excludes the customs tariff issue. The ambassador has thus cleared the doubts about the bilateral negotiations, which have been stalemated for five months. In statements to the economic newspaper "EL DIARIO," Leite-Ribeiro explained that the customs tariff issue is being excluded because Mercosur [Common Market of the South] internal tariffs will be eliminated in January 1995, while Mercosur members will adopt a common external tariff. This common tariff will modify the bilateral agreements, which will have to be renegotiated by Brazil, Argentina, Uruguay, and Paraguay, which are the four Mercosur members. "It would therefore be senseless to negotiate with Chile over a tariff reduction that will last only one year," the Ambassador said. The main obstacles in the Chilean-Brazilian negotiations centered around the area of services, a sector in which Brazil maintains a policy of restrictions that favor local enterprises. In addition, some Chilean entrepreneurial sectors have disagreed with the treaty with Brazil, because they have no confidence in Brazil's macroeconomic development and because of the state subsidies paid to some exporters. Ambassador Leite-Ribeiro said that subsidies to Brazilian exports were terminated three years ago, adding that the Chilean problem is a lack of sufficient industrial supply, while in those sectors where Chile has achieved a strong position, trade relations with the industrialized countries are privileged. He recalled that Brazil has a powerful industry and that its exports amount to $40 billion annually, which is equivalent to Chile's gross domestic product. Brazil is Chile's main commercial partner in Latin America. In 1993 Brazilian exports to Chile amounted to $1.06 billion, while imports stood at $407 million.
