FBIS4-9692 "drlat062_t_94002" FBIS-LAT-94-062 Daily Report 26 Mar 1994 Venezuela Discusses Ties With Colombia Discusses Ties With Colombia PA3003152594 Caracas EL GLOBO in Spanish 26 Mar 94 p 6 PA3003152594 Caracas EL GLOBO Spanish BFN [Report by Enelcys Calderon] [Text] Venezuelan Foreign Minister Miguel Angel Burelli Rivas has said that relations between Venezuela and Colombia remain excellent after the Venezuelan candidate for OAS secretary general withdrew from the race. These relations were never affected by the campaign for the post of OAS secretary general, he added. "Relations are excellent and will remain so" despite the struggle for the post, he said. A number of vehicles stolen in Venezuela, taken to Colombia, and returned by Colombian authorities in a joint effort by the Colombian-Venezuelan border commissions, will arrive in the country next week, the minister said, although the information had already been published. Venezuela succeeded in having the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency sign an agreement to lift the ban on reformulated Venezuelan gasoline, Burelli Rivas said. He also said that PDVSA [Venezuelan Petroleum, Inc.], the Foreign Trade Institute, the Energy and Mines Ministry, and the Foreign Ministry also succeeded in having the EU accept orimulsion [water-emulsified fuel] in their markets. The delegation that will represent Venezuela during next Sunday's OAS session is made up of the deputy foreign minister and the ambassador to the organization, Guido Grooscos. The latter will vote on behalf of the country during the election for secretary general. Demetrio Boesner was designated acting director general of the Foreign Ministry. Portuguese Prime Minister Anibal Cavaco Silva will visit Venezuela in the second half of June to improve bilateral ties and discuss ways to improve trade between the two countries. The president of the prime minister's cabinet is scheduled to arrive in Caracas in the middle of May to agree on the items that Cavaco Silva will discuss during his stay. The information was confirmed by the Portuguese ambassador during a visit to the foreign minister's office.
