FBIS4-24068 "drafr121_c_94003" FBIS-AFR-94-121 Daily Report 23 Jun 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA Budget Said Designed for `Soundly Based Growth' Budget Said Designed for `Soundly Based Growth' MB2306115494 Johannesburg BUSINESS DAY in English 23 Jun 94 p 6 MB2306115494 Johannesburg BUSINESS DAY English BFN [Editorial: "Now SA can get down to business] [Text] South Africa's transition to democracy could never have been without pain, and there will be those who criticise Finance Minister Derek Keys for deciding to load the cost burden of that process onto middle-class and wealthy individuals and private sector businesses. If the critics ignore other factors and simply denigrate the first Budget of a majority government because of the 5 percent transitional levy, they will do Keys and his collaborators an injustice. Keys has produced a Budget designed to generate the soundly based growth we need if the economy is to create jobs and allow the fair distribution of wealth and the social spending necessary for national stability. He had no choice but to put growth above all other considerations, and with this year's Budget he should succeed, while helping government avoid the temptation of fiscal indiscipline. There will be some gripes about the higher excise duties on tobacco and alcoholic products. But the new intention that increases in excise duties should match price increases is wise. Keys trod a fine line over VAT [value-added tax]. He appears sensibly to have resisted pressures to zero-rate more foodstuffs. Variable VAT rates would add to the complexities of collecting the tax which is likely to become an increasingly important source of government income as economic restructuring progresses. But the Finance Minister apparently had to pay the political price of that by not increasing the overall VAT rate. Realities The decision not to change VAT highlights South Africa's new political realities. The majority of people who elected the new government are relatively poor. Until their standards of living are raised, they will continue to oppose taxes like VAT which, whatever their advantages, are regressive. Social services will continue to be directed increasingly towards the most needy. Some sleight of hand has cut the budgeted deficit before borrowing to 6.6 percent of GDP [gross domestic product] from last year's 6.9 percent. GDP has been increased by 5.6 percent -- an estimate of the contribution of the ill-measured informal sector. Calculated on the older, more conventional basis, the Budget deficit would have been 7 percent -- visibly higher than the 6 percent promised to the IMF but still an acceptable level for a Budget that has to put growth above all else. Growth cannot be achieved without investment, and the proposed cut in the corporate income tax rate, in part offset by the higher 25 percent secondary tax on companies (a tax on distributed profits), should encourage it. The scrapping of the import surcharge on capital and intermediate goods will also help. Investment yields will be enhanced by the lower corporate tax rate while companies will be encouraged by the higher STC [secondary tax on companies] to retain and reinvest earnings. Flexibility Keys was right not to introduce a capital gains tax that would deter investment. That will be addressed by the new Tax Advisory Committee, but it will be addressed in parallel with Inland Revenue's proposals to facilitate corporate unbundling and rationalisation. The Finance Minister would have done well to eliminate the marketable securities tax that is regularly criticised by foreign investors. He has, however, made a start on improving the flexibility of financial markets with the new public debt management proposals. Financing of government deficits as they arise should create a more active market in government stock. Couple that with the new system of depositing tax and loan receipts with the commercial banks, and most of the market distortions inherent in the previous system will be eliminated. In addition, government funding should become more sensitive to market trends. Many investors here and abroad remain wary of South Africa's new government. It has still to prove its credentials conclusively and, as a result, it is likely to be under greater scrutiny than its predecessor. This Budget has set the tone, and has shown that government's financial planners believe the business of South Africa can be business.
