FBIS4-40830 "drsov119_a_94032" FBIS-SOV-94-119 Daily Report 21 Jun 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Deputies Warn of `Treacherous' U.S. Plans for Golan Deputies Warn of `Treacherous' U.S. Plans for Golan MK2106065094 Moscow SEGODNYA in Russian 21 Jun 94 p 2 MK2106065094 Moscow SEGODNYA Russian BFN [Mikhail Lantsman report in the "Lobby" column: "Duma Deputies Rise to the Defense of the Golan Heights. Near East Is Warned About U.S. Aggression"] [Text] A group of State Duma deputies has warned of a dangerous course of events in the Near East threatening Russia's national interests. In a message to lower chamber speaker Ivan Rybkin and Russian Federation Foreign Minister Andrey Kozyrev the deputies analyzed the "true reasons" which prompted U.S. President Clinton's administration to force Israel to retreat from the Golan Heights captured in 1967. The conclusions the deputies came to are worrying to Russia, Syria, and Israel. The strategic goal of a peaceful settlement according to the U.S. prescription, Duma deputies believe, is to turn the Golan Heights into a military base for the deployment of rapid reaction forces. As a result of this Israel will become totally dependent on the United States; Syria and other Arab countries, such as Egypt, will be included in the sphere of American policy while Russia, together with its great-power status, will lose lucrative arm markets. In order to avert the treacherous U.S. plans, the deputies asked the Russian Foreign Ministry to step up its influence on the process of peace settlement. The deputies believe that U.S. and Russian armed forces should be excluded from a possible UN peacekeeping contingent in the Golan Heights in the event that Israeli-Syrian accords are reached. The group of defenders of the Golan Heights against U.S. expansion includes 33 deputies who signed the message. The signatories include Sergey Baburin, Viktor Ilyukhin, Yuriy Vlasov, Vasiliy Lipitskiy, and members of the communist faction and Zhirinovskiy's Liberal Democrats. The drive is spearheaded by National Republican Party leader Nikolay Lysenko. On 17 June the State Duma rejected Lysenko's proposal to include the Golan Heights issue on the agenda. Nonetheless the results of the voting (more than 80 in favor) showed that the number of Russian defenders of the Golan Heights has grown.
