FBIS4-5072 "dreas067_c_94008" FBIS-EAS-94-067 Daily Report 7 Apr 1994 North Korea U.S. Press, Secretary Perry's Remarks Condemned U.S. Press, Secretary Perry's Remarks Condemned SK0704051294 Pyongyang KCNA in English 0454 GMT 7 Apr 94 SK0704051294 Pyongyang KCNA English BFN ["Paid Trumpeters Dancing to the Tune of Warmaniacs" -- KCNA headline] [Text] Pyongyang, April 7 (KCNA) -- THE NEW YORK TIMES in an editorial kicked up a war hysteria, crying for a prompt bombing raid on the nuclear sites of North Korea by the United States, according to Voice of America April 4. USA TODAY also clamoured about "the inevitability of a war on the Korean peninsula." The U.S. Defence Secretary William Perry has let loose a string of bellicose outbursts, fully revealing his true color as a warmaniac. In an interview with the U.S. NBC Television on April 3, he again brought forward the fiction of "nuclear arms development by North Korea" and declared that the United States was ready for a war adventure to check it. Responding to the bellicose utterances of a U.S. brasshat, paid trumpeters of the United States are coming out with nonsensical arguments against the DPRK. The very one bringing the dark clouds of a nuclear war over the Korean peninsula is the United States which is threatening the DPRK with nuclear weapons. In vociferating about the fictitious "nuclear weapons development" by North Korea, the U.S. warlikers seek to find a pretext to stifle the socialist system of the DPRK. Ignoring this stark fact, paid trumpeters of the U.S. are dancing to the drum-beating of the warmaniacs. This shows that they are despicable hackwriters who have thrown away justice and conscience, impartiality and truth of the press like a pair of wornout shoes for a few dollars. The trumpeters bribed by the U.S. bellicose elements would be well advised to act with discretion, drawing a proper lesson from the doom of such warmaniacs as Hitler and Tojo who perished in the flame of the war of aggression kindled by them to subjugate other countries and nations and from the doom of the hackwriters who played into their hands.
