FBIS3-6292 "dreas051_a_94004" FBIS-EAS-94-051 Document Type:Daily Report 16 Mar 1994 NORTHEAST ASIA Japan Officials View U.S. Auto Parts, Phone Accords OW1603051894 Tokyo KYODO in English 0448 GMT 16 Mar 94 OW1603051894 Tokyo KYODO Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Tokyo, March 16 KYODO -- The Japanese Government cannot act as a guarantor for voluntary market opening measures pledged by Japan's auto industry, a Japanese trade official said Wednesday. Government guarantees "mean the government controls business activities and this runs counter to the government's policy of deregulation," said a top official with the Ministry of International Trade and Industry. The comments were made after U.S. Trade Representative Mickey Kantor pointed to a need for "guarantees of progress" shared equally by Japan's auto industry and government. Kantor, speaking before the House trade subcommittee on Tuesday, said he is dubious whether voluntary efforts by the auto sector will be effective without government guarantees. Kantor cited an accord involving Motorola Inc.'s access to Japan's cellular telephone market as a model for deeper involvement by the Japanese Government in ensuring market deregulation. The government assumed responsibility under the accord for seeing that Japan's Nippon Idou Tsushin [Japan Mobile Communications Corporation] implements the agreement, which will to widen [as received] Motorola's access to the lucrative Tokyo-Nagoya cellular phone market. In a related development, a Japanese diplomat in Washington said the scope of the government's responsibility for implementing the weekend deal is "limited." The Japanese diplomat said he could not discuss the content of terms of the cellular deal because the Japanese and U.S. Governments have not exchanged official notes on it. The accord is a very special case and is not related to ongoing bilateral talks on a new trade framework, the diplomat said. "The framework talks are not aimed at resolving a complaint by a company," he said. The diplomat made the remark in reference to comments by some U.S. trade officials who said the cellular phone agreement could serve as a model for issues covered under the framework talks. The dispute over Motorola's access to Japan's cellular phone market was seen as a flashpoint in bilateral trade relations. Washington had threatened to impose sanctions against Japan for allegedly not abiding by a 1989 agreement on widening U.S. access to Japan's cellular phone market.
