FBIS3-58175 "drweu006_b_94004" FBIS-WEU-94-006 Document Type:Daily Report 10 Jan 1994 BENELUX COUNTRIES Netherlands Request for U.S. Troops in Bosnia Lacks `Credibility' BR1001131194 Amsterdam DE VOLKSKRANT in Dutch 8 Jan 94 p 6 BR1001131194 Amsterdam DE VOLKSKRANT Language: Dutch Article Type:BFN [Unattributed report: "Lubbers Says Request for U.S. Support in Bosnia Still Lacks Credibility"] [Text] The Hague -- Prime Minister Lubbers believes the countries of Europe must first try to bring the violence in Bosnia under control before asking the United States for help. He believes that a request to Washington to supply ground troops will lack credibility as long as Europe fails to honor its own agreements. Lubbers was reacting Friday [7 January] to the call by the [Netherlands] House of Representatives for a substantial U.S. military presence in Bosnia because the present force there is inadequate. The question of Bosnia will feature on the agenda of the NATO summit to be held 10-11 January in Brussels. "In principle, the United States must participate," Lubbers said in the Second Chamber on Friday. "It is more credible, however, if Europe first provides extra troops itself." The PvdA [Labor Party] and VVD [People's Party for Freedom and Democracy] are rallying behind French Defense Minister Philippe Leotard, who intends to ask Washington to intervene in order to protect the citizens of Bosnia and to provide them with more aid. Foreign Minister Kooijmans described the French statements as hypocritical. The United States only wants to provide large quantities of ground troops to the UN force when the warring factions have concluded a peace settlement. At present, the United States is only participating in air operations over Bosnia. National Defense Minister Ter Beek said the Netherlands is still prepared to send a battalion of the airborne brigade to the Muslim enclaves of Zepa and Srebrenica. The previously planned departure was postponed because Serbian troops are completely blocking access to the "safe areas." During the extra committee meeting, the House of Representatives also debated the topic of NATO expansion, with the government parties CDA [Christian Democratic Appeal] and PvdA putting pressure on Lubbers and Kooijmans to bring forward, during the NATO summit, the date of NATO membership for Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, and Hungary. According to the CDA and PvdA, NATO must speed up its expansion before the Russian extreme nationalism of Zhirinovskiy takes hold over those countries. Under the leadership of the United States, NATO is not in favor of rapidly granting membership to former East Bloc countries. NATO does not want to go further than a "Partnership for Peace," comprising closer political and military cooperation. Lubbers said NATO should not allow itself to be led by fear of the far right. He merely wants Russia to have its fair share of participation in the "responsibilities and opportunities" of the partnership. According to Lubbers, the formula for cooperation currently on offer presents brighter prospects for a "gradual" expansion of NATO. That process must begin next week, he said, and allow for the possibility of membership in the long term, "because it has to sound promising," continued Lubbers. There is no indication yet how long the countries of East Europe will have to wait for membership, Minister Kooijmans said. "The tempo depends on the participation of the various countries involved. That will emerge in due course."
