FBIS3-5443 "dreas045_m_94002" FBIS-EAS-94-045 Document Type:Daily Report 8 Mar 1994 Thailand NAFTA Expansion Could Hamper U.S. Investment BK0803023594 Bangkok BANGKOK POST in English 8 Mar 94 p 17 BK0803023594 Bangkok BANGKOK POST Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] American investment in Thailand may be affected if Singapore and Korea are accepted into the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), says M.R. Napthong Thongyai, chief of the Thai Commercial Counsellor's Office in Washington. Singapore, an ASEAN member, and Korea have approached the NAFTA partners -- the United States, Canada and Mexico -- to become members of what is already the world's largest free-trade zone. According to M.R. Napthong, the US Trade Representative's office has informed the Thai Commerce Ministry of the two countries' overtures. Mexico once opposed to the idea of new NAFTA's members, appears to be doing an about-face and has recently suggested that other countries in South America could join the pact. A Commerce Ministry source said that if Singapore and Korea were accepted into NAFTA, US investments in other ASEAN countries including Thailand would be affected. The source noted that Singapore would be a target for criticism from members of the ASEAN Free Trade Area [AFTA] unless it offered similar preferential tariffs to members of both trade blocs. He said Singapore may offer lower tariffs on certain items traded among NAFTA members or shorter enforcement time frames than those offered to AFTA members. Singapore has long been known in favour of such an agreement, so many ASEAN members fear it would offer the US the best deals. If NAFTA covered Korea, it may erode the competitiveness of Thai exports in certain items such as textiles and electronic products in the United States, said the source. Another source in the Business Economics Department said there would be little impact on Thai exports to the United States since Thailand enjoyed lower rates on products such as computers under the Generalised System of Preferences. Singapore is the second-biggest exporter of computers to the United States with a 17.2 percent market share. Japan's share is 35.2 percent. The source said Thai exports of textiles, which account for 2.6 percent of the US market, would not suffer because a bilateral agreement ensured export quotas.
