FBIS3-10626 "drlat047_m_94013" FBIS-LAT-94-047 Document Type:Daily Report 10 Mar 1994 Brazil Fiber Optics Network To Link Mercosur Countries PY0903122194 Sao Paulo O ESTADO DE SAO PAULO in Portuguese 6 Mar 94 Economic Section p B12 PY0903122194 Sao Paulo O ESTADO DE SAO PAULO Language: Portuguese Article Type:BFN [By Oswaldo Ribas] [Text] The countries of the Common Market of the South (Mercosur) will be interconnected by a fiber optics network as of September, according to the estimates of the C&M joint venture gathering 25 telephone enterprises from several countries, which is investing $75 million to allow Brazil, Argentina, Paraguay, and Uruguay to gain access to multimedia systems. Christened Unisul, the fiber optics cable will join Florianopolis (Santa Catarina) and Montevideo, while two other cables will make connections with Asuncion and Buenos Aires. The expansion of the network to Santiago has also been provided for. There will be a total of 1,720 km of underwater cables along the South American Atlantic coast. Unisul will allow regional telecommunications enterprises to send images, data, and voice, both separately and simultaneously. This infrastructure will in the near future allow South American users of interactive systems to have access to or to transmit from their homes communications services and entertainment, cultural, or general information for public use. The Unisul system will join the Brazilian fiber optics network as far as Fortaleza (Ceara). From this city it will connect South America with the cable systems of North America and Europe. The Brazilian part of the project should be finished in 1995, but there could be a delay. For Europe and North America, the estimate is that operation will begin in 1994. To communicate with Argentina, Brazil will have 15,120 channels. During a first stage, however, only 2,500 channels will be opened. This figure, however, is enough to expand by five times the current communications capacity between the two main South American countries. In the opinion of Embratel [Brazilian Telecommunications Company], the cables will serve to relieve the congestion of telephone traffic to Argentina. Brazilian Network The Brazilian fiber optics network provides for a first stage of 7,500 km. The first stretch will join Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo. The following lines will join southern Brazil and Belo Horizonte (Minas Gerais) and the northeastern region. According to Embratel reports, Brazilian fiber optics projects include short and long distance systems that will connect the main capitals of the country. According to Telesp [Sao Paulo Telecommunications, Inc.] information, 90,000 meters of cable are being installed per month. By the year 2000 it is estimated that 70 percent of the Sao Paulo metropolitan region will be served by fiber optics cables. Educational Telecommunication Network Embratel and the Ministries of Education and Science and Technology have begun to work on Brazil's information superhighway. It is a system that will expand the National Research Network interconnecting Brazilian universities, which will also connect schools and cultural organizations such as libraries and museums. There will be three cultural networks that will be freely accessible in the future.
