FBIS3-51420 "drlat012_c_94009" FBIS-LAT-94-012 Document Type:Daily Report 19 Jan 1994 MEXICO Chiapas Crisis Congressional Sessions To Discuss Amnesty Bill PA1801195094 Mexico City XEW Television Network in Spanish 0435 GMT 18 Jan 94 PA1801195094 Mexico City XEW Television Network Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [From "24 Hours" newscast] [Text] This evening legislators from the political parties that make up the permanent commission of the National Congress unanimously approved, with 29 members voting in favor of the motion, the holding of special sessions at the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate. During these special sessions they are to review and discuss the amnesty law proposed by President Carlos Salinas de Gortari. Starting on 19 January for three days, special sessions will be held at the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate to discuss and approve the amnesty bill concerning the violent incidents in the Mexican State of Chiapas which was sent to Congress by President Carlos Salinas de Gortari. The amnesty bill contains five articles. Basically the bill states that people who violated the law during the violence in Chiapas State between 1 January 1994 and 1100 on 16 January will not be arrested and prosecuted. The amnesty bill states that the attorney general will verify that the law is applied. Arrest warrants will be canceled and those being prosecuted will be released. The bill also states that in case there are any amparos filed regarding these incidents, the authority will dismiss charges and will declare the penal action ended. The people favored by the amnesty bill may not be arrested or prosecuted in the future for the Chiapas incidents. Francisco Jose Paoli, National Action Party deputy, read the president's amnesty bill. One of its most important articles states: [Begin Paoli recording] The individuals who are currently facing judicial action, inside or outside the country, as a result of the crimes referred to in Article 1 may benefit from the amnesty once they have surrendered all types of weapons, explosives, instruments, or other objects used to commit crimes. This must be done during the 30-day period following the enactment of the law at locations that will be announced at the proper time. [end recording] Legislators from the Party of the Democratic Revolution demanded the discussion of various constitutional reforms during the special sessions to offer more integral solutions to the problems faced by the Indians in Chiapas State.
