FBIS3-20865 "jpeer011__s94007" JPRS-EER-94-011-S Document Type:JPRS Document Title:East Europe SUPPLEMENT 16 March 1994 CROATIA Representative in Belgrade Views Role 94P20555A Zagreb VJESNIK in Serbo-Croatian 16 Mar 94 p 9 94P20555A Zagreb VJESNIK Language: Serbo-Croatian Article Type:CSO [Editorial Report] In an article titled "Croatian Government Office in Belgrade Will Deal With Practical Issues," published on page 9 of the 16 March issue of the Zagreb daily VJESNIK, correspondent Ivkica Bacic reports that Dr. Zvonimir Markovic, head of the Croatian Government Office, had already arrived in Belgrade and was scheduled to present a letter from his government to Yugoslav Prime Minister Radoje Kontic on 23 March, thus marking the official opening of the Croatian "Embassy," which will begin to operate "within days." Bacic notes that at present the staff consists of Dr. Markovic, Dr. Dusan Bilandzic, and Davor Vidis. Interviewed by Bacic, Markovic describes his first impressions of Belgrade and expresses satisfaction that bilateral relations are finally improving, adding that "all people, here and in Croatia, must do away with narrow-mindedness and arrogance and realize that nobody can live in isolation from the world," which is "just as unnatural as the state of war." Asked about the role his office is going to play, Markovic states: "We are not going to pursue high politics here but try to solve the problems of the common man. We will try to help on a human level." In this regard he mentions plans to establish communication and transportation links between Zagreb and Belgrade, as well as offer legal aid in solving property issues. Commenting on Belgrade media reaction to the opening of the Croatian Government Office, VJESNIK notes that all dailies and local television stations had reported the initial statements made by the Croatian representatives, with the exception of state television, which kept silent, and state radio, which mentioned Markovic's arrival only briefly, citing Croatian sources.
