FBIS3-47723 "dreas011_m_94001" FBIS-EAS-94-011 Document Type:Daily Report 18 Jan 1994 Thailand Prime Minister Chuan Receives Bentsen BK1801145194 Bangkok Army Television Channel 5 in Thai 1200 GMT 18 Jan 94 BK1801145194 Bangkok Army Television Channel 5 Language: Thai Article Type:BFN [Text] U.S. Secretary of Treasury Lloyd Bentsen, accompanied by financial advisers, had a meeting with Prime Minister Chuan Likphai at Government House for about half an hour today. Reporting on the meeting, Finance Minister Tharin Nimmanhemin said that the subjects discussed during the meeting include preparations for an unofficial meeting of the finance ministers of the members of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation, or APEC, which will be held in Hawaii, the United States, on 18-19 March. The U.S. treasury secretary proposed that a meeting of senior APEC officials be held prior to the ministerial meeting. Tharin said Thailand will be represented by Fiscal Policy Office Director Somchai Ruchuphan. The meeting will discuss financial and monetary matters within the framework of an earlier discussion held by APEC leaders in terms of the economic development of the Asia and Pacific region with a view of achieving a stable, high growth rate. Discussions will also stress bilateral cooperation. Meanwhile, U.S. Secretary of Treasury Lloyd Bentsen said after an official consultation with the Thai prime minister that the United States is interested in expanding cooperation with the Asia and Pacific region. He said the United States is interested in reaching a conclusion with Thailand about the financial service sector -- Thailand is at a disadvantage from the conditions of the just-concluded GATT round of trade talks and seeks to begin talks at a bilateral level. It is believed that future negotiations will help Thailand settle the problems. He said the United States adheres to the principle of trade expansion, which equally benefits its trading partners in Asia. Asked by the mass media about U.S. assistance and cooperation for Asian countries, the U.S. secretary of treasury said Thailand and Indonesia can play an important role in expanding cooperation to other countries within the framework of trade liberalization which is supported by the United States.
