FBIS3-6739 "dreas054_n_94001" FBIS-EAS-94-054 Document Type:Daily Report 18 Mar 1994 Vietnam Further on Thai Prime Minister's Visit Received by Le Duc Anh BK1903074694 Hanoi VNA in English 1358 GMT 18 Mar 94 BK1903074694 Hanoi VNA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Hanoi VNA March 18 -- President Le Duc Anh received in Ho Chi Minh City this afternoon Thai Prime Minister Chuan Likphai, now on an official friendship visit to Vietnam. During the reception, P.M Chuan Likphai spoke highly of the achievements recorded by the Vietnamese people in their current renovation process. He said he hoped that the results recorded by the two governments during his visit would promote the friendly and cooperative relations between the two countries in the economic, commercial, education, transport and other fields. For his part President Le Duc Anh welcomed Prime Minister Chuan Likphai's visit as an important event which helped further promote the bilateral relationship. The Vietnamese leader highlighted Vietnam's foreign policy of being friend with all countries, and wished that the friendship and cooperation between Vietnam and Thailand would be further consolidated and developed on the basis of mutual understanding and for the sake of each country, and for peace, stability and development in the region. On this occasion, President Le Duc Anh asked the Thai prime minister to convey his regards to King Phumiphon Adunyadet and the Thai royalty. Vice Foreign Minister Le Mai was also present at the event. On March 17, Prime Minister Chuan Likphai made a tour of the ancient royal city of Hue. The Thai prime minister and his party were welcomed by Mr. Pham Ba Dien, chairman of the people's committee of Thua Thien-Hue Province, and many senior officials of the province and the city. During his stay in Hue, P.M. Chuan Likphai and other Thai distinguished guests called on several places of historic and cultural interests. In the evening the provincial people's committee gave a banquet in honour of the Thai prime minister. On this occasion, Mr. Chuan Likphai presented 20,000 USD to the province to contribute to restoring the Hue historic-cultural relic.
