FBIS3-13665 "drnes053_a_94002" FBIS-NES-94-053 Document Type:Daily Report 17 Mar 1994 ARAB AFRICA Algeria `High-Level' Bribery, Negligence Cited in Jailbreak PM1803095894 London AL-HAYAH in Arabic 17 Mar 94 pp 1, 4 PM1803095894 London AL-HAYAH Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Unattributed report: "Algeria: Justice, Interior, and Defense Ministries Trade Accusations Over Tazoult Operation"] [Excerpts] Tazoult (Algeria), AL-HAYAH -- The committee investigating the attack on Tazoult prison in Batna Wilaya completed its field investigations yesterday and returned to the Algerian capital. President Major General Liamine Zeroual is expected to address the nation in a few days to announce "crucial decisions" in the light of the committee's report and other factors. It was striking yesterday that the Justice, Defense, and Interior Ministries, of which the investigation committee is comprised, accused one another of negligence -- which led to the production of three reports, instead of one. Military units continued their combing operations in search of some 900 prisoners who escaped when scores of gunmen attacked Tazoult prison last Thursday. AL-HAYAH yesterday saw scores of wounded escaped prisoners who were moved to Aress Hospital (50 km east of Batna) after the security forces pursuing them had shot them. Explosions were heard in the mountains and helicopters were seen flying over the area. It has been learned that the combing operations have been moved to Batna city itself, including the university campus and the area around it. As is known, the area is Maj. Gen. Zeroual's birthplace. Reliable sources have told AL-HAYAH that the investigation committee comprises nine members representing the Justice, Defense, and Interior Ministries. The committee recorded "important observations" about the negligence that took place before and during the attack on the prison. [passage omitted] It is not ruled out that measures may be taken against officials at the three ministries at various levels. One source expressed amazement at the inclusion of the director of the Justice Ministry Prisons Department in the committee, especially as he is one of those accused of negligence. The source also accuses the Defense Ministry of failing to carry out its duties. He also stresses that Justice Minister Mohamed Taguia informed all parties of the matter but they did not carry out their duties. AL-HAYAH has learned that the regime has opened the Justice Ministry file and discovered that "high-level circles at the ministry are accused of bribery and favoritism." These accusations are based on "firm evidence" to a large extent linked to what happened in Tazoult prison and other prisons. It has been learned that the investigation committee also recorded the disappearance of Minister Taguia and his senior aides during the four-hour attack on Tazoult, and none of them went to the site.
