FBIS3-8129 "dreeu043__a94017" FBIS-EEU-94-043-A Document Type:Daily Report 4 March 1994 ANNEX Hungary Assembly Official Comments on NATO AWACS AU0103203494 Budapest MTI in English 1842 GMT 1 Mar 94 AU0103203494 Budapest MTI Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Budapest, 1 March (MTI) -- Notwithstanding the air incident in Bosnia, there is no need for a new parliamentary resolution on NATO's AWACS surveillance mission in Hungary's airspace, because Budapest has no reason to suppose NATO would use intelligence gathered by AWACS jets for military purposes beyond their mandate from Hungary's legislature, Parliament's Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Laszlo Kovacs told MTI on Tuesday [1 March]. "Nevertheless, Hungary should closely watch the South Slav [Yugoslav] region, since the downing of aircraft violating the flying ban over Bosnia may help escalate the armed conflict," he added. Kovacs recalled that parliament initially gave permission for the passage of peacekeeping UNPROFOR [United Nations Protection Forces] forces through Hungary, or their possible withdrawal to Hungary's territory. The government referred to this when it approved the AWACS mission to carry humanitarian aid consignments to their destination. Parliamentary parties represented in the Defense and the Foreign Affairs Committees subsequently acknowledged the government's decision. Later, parliament also gave its tacit consent to AWACS taking control of the no-fly zone over Bosnia. However, the AWACS mission changed in nature last April when the United Nations decided to have the aviation ban over Bosnia observed under all circumstances and by all possible means, if necessary even military means. In view of the new possibility that data collected by AWACS patrolling Hungary's airspace may be used to guide a battle in the air, the Defense and Foreign Affairs Committees decided to ask the government to warn NATO that AWACS mission had been permitted only peaceful purposes, and in any other case they need a parliamentary mandate under Hungary's Constitution. When NATO set a deadline for Serb troops to pull their heavy weapons back from Sarajevo, and the possibility arose that AWACS may play some part in the ultimatum, Hungary told NATO it would be against its interests if AWACS jets were in its airspace during any air strikes on Bosnia, Kovacs said. As for Monday's NATO action in Bosnia, nobody has said yet if it was aided by AWACS from Hungary or anywhere else, or whether there were surveillance planes at all in Hungary's airspace at the time. "But as we have no reason to assume that NATO has forgotten last April's warning that AWACS jets in Hungary must not be used in military actions, the issue meed not be taken to parliament unless NATO asks to extend the mission's mandate," Kovacs said.
