FBIS3-40824 "jpnea009___94003" JPRS-NEA-94-009 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Near East & South Asia 23 February 1994 NEAR EAST KUWAIT Naturalized Citizens' Children Permitted Vote 94AE0072B London AL-SHARQ AL-AWSAT in Arabic 24 Jan 94 pp 1, 4 94AE0072B London AL-SHARQ AL-AWSAT Language: Arabic Article Type:CSO [Article by Ghanim al-Mutayri: "Kuwait Grants Naturalized Citizens the Right to Vote, Run for Office"] [Text] The Kuwaiti Cabinet has agreed in principle to allow children of naturalized citizens, who are born after their fathers acquire Kuwaiti citizenship, to exercise their right to be a candidate and to vote. Minister of State for Cabinet Affairs 'Abd-al-'Aziz Dakhil said that, in its regular session on 23 January, the Cabinet reviewed a draft bill referred from the National Assembly to amend the regulation in Law No 51/1959 concerning Kuwaiti citizenship, aimed at permitting children of naturalized citizens to vote and run for office on equal footing with Kuwaitis who obtained Kuwaiti citizenship by birth. It was decided that the final form of the bill will be determined in the Cabinet's next meeting, and will be referred back to the National Assembly for debate and decision. On another matter, a Kuwaiti security source confirmed to AL-SHARQ AL-AWSAT on 23 January that a security force had raided the building of the Palestinian embassy in Kuwait on the evening of 22 January. He said that was done in accordance with legal procedures, referring to the fact that the members of this force were empowered to enter the embassy building on a warrant from the Public Prosecutor's Office. The source explained that the decision to enter the Palestinian embassy building was made by Criminal Investigation and State Security personnel, after a person accused of burglarizing several homes in the area confessed that the weapon, which he had used, had been obtained from the embassy building located in the Hawalli area. The same source said that this matter necessitated that the prosecutor's office issue a warrant to search the building in the presence of a responsible official from the prosecutor's office. He said that the authorities had banned newsmen and photographers from entering the embassy building, which has been abandoned since the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait. However, certain Kuwaiti newspapers reported that machine guns, pistols, and ammunition had been found in the embassy building and were confiscated. The remains of a body was also discovered; it was hanging, supported by one of the walls.
