FBIS3-20789 "jpeer008__s94054" JPRS-EER-94-008-S Document Type:JPRS Document Title:East Europe SUPPLEMENT 10 March 1994 YUGOSLAVIA Federal Expert Opposes Production as Security for Credit 94P20445A Belgrade POLITIKA in Serbo-Croatian 17 Feb 94 p 7 94P20445A Belgrade POLITIKA Language: Serbo-Croatian Article Type:CSO [Article by R.N.: "Dr. Savic: I Am Opposed to Production-Secured Financing"] [Text] Even if there were to be any financing of industry before the end of the first quarter this year, it would have to be secured by hard currency deposited by the companies. Issuing the new dinar based on production of goods would create a situation in which a dinar with hard currency backing would be replaced by a dinar based on the production of goods for which no reliable market has been verified. This was stated yesterday by Dr. Nebojsa Savic, a member of the team of experts participating in the creation of the new economic program. The comment was made in response to the latest credit approval for IMT [Industry of Machines and Tractors]. The primary mechanism of financing, in Dr. Savic's opinion, should not be connected with the Central Bank, but with commercial banks that would determine whether the programs they finance are justifiable, i.e., whether the companies would be able to secure their liquidity and acquire new dinars by selling their products. Dr. Savic believes that if a company obtains credit through an agreement with a commercial bank, that is a two-way deal because it involves a definite interest rate and a repayment deadline within 90 days. However, Dr. Savic points out that the main purpose of the new economic plan was to have solid currency, the new dinar, fully backed by hard currency, which would make it possible to introduce the new dinar into all transactions. "My idea is that we should remain within this firm monetary regime and financial discipline until the end of the first quarter and only then consider ways of activating some other possibilities," Dr. Savic said. After all, the firm financial discipline, requiring companies to deposit their hard currency, was designed for the purpose of extracting the hard currency which the companies used in what were termed illegal transactions among themselves. For this reason, Dr. Savic stresses that during this quarter production should not be accepted as backing for financing.
