FBIS3-5863 "dreas048_n_94001" FBIS-EAS-94-048 Document Type:Daily Report 11 Mar 1994 Vietnam Dutch Minister on Asylum Seekers, Human Rights BR1103132594 Rotterdam NRC HANDELSBLAD in Dutch 10 Mar 94 p 3 BR1103132594 Rotterdam NRC HANDELSBLAD Language: Dutch Article Type:BFN [Excerpt] Netherlands Foreign Minister Kooijmans has raised the question in Hanoi of the return of 375 refugees from the Netherlands who have been refused political asylum, but has yet to conclude an agreement with the Vietnamese Government. The refugees came from the former Czechoslovakia where they were sent as guest workers, but were not granted residence permits in the Netherlands as The Hague does not believe they are in any danger if they return to their home country. The Netherlands Parliament has asked the government for watertight legal guarantees that the Vietnamese will not encounter problems on their return, but the Foreign Ministry reports that preparations for the signing of a treaty are taking longer in order to obtain these guarantees. The IOM [International Organization of Migration] is also seeking to achieve better arrangements with the Vietnamese Government because the return of the Vietnamese who have been in the Netherlands since 1991 could serve as a precedent. A further 10,000 refugees, mainly from Asia, must also return to their home country. If any mistakes are made in returning the refugees on this occasion or if any uncertainties remain this could work against the return of all those who are to follow. This is why the IOM will only participate in the return and supervise the resettlement once all the arrangements have been completed and laid down in an agreement signed between the Netherlands and Vietnam. Most importantly, the Netherlands is seeking clarification regarding the position of Vietnamese who do not want to return to Vietnam. The Justice Ministry has made 1 million guilders available for resettlement. During the meeting with his Vietnamese counterpart Nguyen Manh Cam, Kooijmans reminded Vietnam of its international obligations to accept returning nationals as a member of the United Nations. He urged the Vietnamese Government to come to a speedy agreement with the Netherlands. Kooijmans also raised the issue of human rights and freedom of worship. The Netherlands Government considers that economic progress in Vietnam must be coupled with greater political freedoms and accelerated efforts to improve the position of a large part of the population which remains socially disadvantaged. A spokesman for Minister Kooijmans in Hanoi described yesterday afternoon's talks as difficult. In their talks with the Netherlands Government the Vietnamese denied that there were any problems of freedom of worship. They stressed that as members of a sovereign government they "indeed had the right to ensure that order was not disturbed," the spokesman reported. Kooijmans has signed, however, an agreement on the protection of mutual investments. The Netherlands is the tenth largest investor in Vietnam, and the third European investor after France and the United Kingdom with total investments of 450 million guilders (Shell, Heineken, Organon, and investments by a number of commercial firms). Since last December the Netherlands once again had its own embassy in Hanoi, occupying two rooms in the Dan Chu Hotel. [passage omitted]
