FBIS3-39561 "drweu034__a94006" FBIS-WEU-94-034-A Document Type:Daily Report 18 February 1994 ANNEX International Affairs Swiss Federal Council Supports NATO Ultimatum BR1702133394 Bern ATSA/SDAA in French 1605 GMT 16 Feb 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY BR1702133394 Bern ATSA/SDAA Language: French Article Type:BFN [Article signed BN: "Bosnia -- Federal Council Favors Respect of Ultimatum"; as released by Bern ATSA/SDAA database] [Text] Bern, 16 Feb (ATS) -- The Federal Council on Wednesday [16 February] discussed the current situation in Bosnia. The Council voiced its concern at the escalation of violence. According to Achille Casanova, Swizerland's vice-chancellor, it expressed the hope that the NATO ultimatum issued to the belligerents on 9 February, and in particular to the besiegers of Sarajevo, would be respected. The question of military aircraft overflying Swiss airspace, he added, was not asked, since no such request had been made to Swizerland. The issue of whether foreign military aircraft could fly over Switzerland falls into the debate on neutrality. During the Gulf war in 1991, Switzerland kept to the traditional definition [of neutrality] and banned such aircraft from entering Swiss airspace. Exceptions were made for the transportation of the wounded, hospital workers, and medical equipment. The foreign policy report published last November by the Federal Council nevertheless marks a reorientation of political neutrality. The Federal Council considers that a neutral state can participate in coercive measures against another state as provided for by the UN Charter, on condition that these measures have the very broad backing of the international community. This stance is then no longer in contradiction with the right to neutrality. The first example of this new practice was the authorization to overfly Swizterland granted to NATO's AWACS radar aircraft charged with monitoring the skies over Bosnia-Herzegovina. The Head of the Federal Department for Foreign Affairs (DFAE) Flavio Cotti, recently justified this measure by the humanitarian nature of the flights and the principle of solidarity. Mr. Cotti stated that the AWACS were not combat aircraft and thus did not constitute a precedent for a NATO request for combat aircraft to fly through Swiss airspace in the framework of UN action.
