FBIS4-36381 "drnes111yy_94002" FBIS-NES-94-111 Daily Report 8 Jun 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Arab-Israeli Talks U.S. Plan for Jordanian-Israeli Projects Reported U.S. Plan for Jordanian-Israeli Projects Reported JN0806144994 Paris Radio Monte Carlo in Arabic 1200 GMT 8 Jun 94 JN0806144994 Paris Radio Monte Carlo Arabic BFN [Report by Randah Habib from Amman] [Text] Next month Washington will launch a working plan to carry out economic projects between Jordan and Israel after these two countries have surmounted the most important obstacle to the progress of their bilateral negotiations, by forming a committee in Washington yesterday to demarcate joint borders. The committee will rotate meetings in Jordan and Israel starting in July. The U.S. plan is based on two studies; the first is Jordanian and the other Israeli, which were presented in Washington. Washington will deduce the joint points included in the two studies to formulate a plan that is acceptable to both sides in order to be discussed by the tripartite committee in Washington next month. The Jordanian file includes, in particular, the two seas canal plan, to link the Red Sea with the Dead Sea, while the Israeli plan speaks about linking the Mediterranean with the Dead Sea. This Jordanian plan enjoys Washington's support, which considers it more realistic and useful, and closer to implementation. Moreover, Amman no longer opposes the holding of the international economic conference on its territory. It will be held here next year, after a preparatory conference has been held in Morocco in November. These developments come at a time when Prime Minister 'Abd-al-Salam al-Majali is preparing to reshuffle his cabinet today in which he will introduce approximately 10 deputies. This will allow the participation of the legislative council in the decisions of the executive branch at a time when Jordan has expressed its readiness to sign a border agreement with Israel without waiting for the conclusion of a peace treaty.
