FBIS3-1018 "drafr053_d_94007" FBIS-AFR-94-053 Document Type:Daily Report 17 Mar 1994 SOUTHERN AFRICA Angola Council of Ministers Meets 17 March MB1803101494 Luanda TPA Television Network in Portuguese 1930 GMT 17 Mar 94 MB1803101494 Luanda TPA Television Network Language: Portuguese Article Type:BFN [Text] The Council of Ministers began a meeting in Luanda today to assess the socioeconomic, political and military situation of the country. The meeting is being chaired by President of the Republic Jose Eduardo dos Santos. The Council of Ministers was briefed on the peace process and political and military situation. The legal decree establishing the Planning and Economic Coordination Ministry, as well as the decree that alters the function and composition of the Council of Ministers Standing Commission were assessed. Other points discussed were the decree drafts and the respective salary tables of the adjustment of salaries of civil servants and parallel entities, as well as salary adjustment of the personnel from the military administration organs. Council of Ministers Secretary Carlos Feijo had this to say at the end of the meeting. [Begin Feijo recording] A session of the Council of Ministers which consisted essentially of three parts has just ended. In the first part the council assessed the military situation and the peace process whose negotiations are underway in Lusaka. We assessed the negotiations. In the second part we assessed a draft document creating the Ministry of Planning and Economic Coordination as an organ which will be charged with drafting medium and long term policies, and will coordinate the implementation of the socioeconomic plan, and will necessarily be related to the Finance Ministry and the Central Bank with a view to considering the plan as an indicative element, and not as an imperative one, as has been the case in our planning law. The third part dealt with the approval of the government's program in which it is stipulated that in March there would be salary increases, and this is what was done. The salary adjustment of the civil servants and personnel from the military administration organs, as well as internal order was approved. [end recording]
