FBIS4-16325 "drsov073_f_94006" FBIS-SOV-94-073 Daily Report 14 Apr 1994 National Affairs Minister Rejects Loyalty Oath Minister Rejects Loyalty Oath LD1404212194 Moscow INTERFAX in English 1934 GMT 14 Apr 94 LD1404212194 Moscow INTERFAX English BFN [Text] Newly appointed Crimean Interior Minister, Major-General Valeriy Kuznetsov said at a press conference in Simferopol today that his department would be working "outside politics." He stated he did not intend to swear an oath of loyalty to the Ukrainian people since he had already sworn the oath committing himself to serve not only to the Crimean and to the Ukrainian peoples but to all the peoples of the former USSR. Kuznetsov recognized that Crimea was an integral part of Ukraine. However, he pointed out that he was not going to coordinate his activities with the Ukrainian president's representatives in Crimea. "There is the Crimean president for this purpose," he added emphasizing that he had not as yet met the Ukrainian president's representative and that he had no intention to do this. Kuznetsov suggested that the police must learn to live with the authorities. "Everyone who perpetrates a crime must be punished, whoever they may be," he said. Kuznetsov refuted allegations that two planes with Ukrainian special military units were heading to Crimea. He said he had no information on corruption in Crimean law enforcement bodies, regardless of the fact that this issue had led to the resignation of former Crimean interior minister, Major-General Aleksandr Plyuta. Kuznetsov also stated that there were no Cossack military formations on Crimean territory. He did not take seriously people in a Cossack uniform. Kuznetsov estimated the situation in Crimea as calm and he saw no reasons for declaring a state of emergency in the republic. He said his appointment, although provoking contradictory response among the Ukrainian leaders, was in strict conformity with the law. Major-General Kuznetsov had been the commander of the Crimean army corps. He had also been the Crimean president's advisor on military issues.
