FBIS4-82 "drafr062_c_94026" FBIS-AFR-94-062 Daily Report 30 Mar 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA ANC To Seek International Credit Rating ANC To Seek International Credit Rating MB3003145094 Johannesburg SAPA in English 1422 GMT 30 Mar 94 MB3003145094 Johannesburg SAPA English BFN [By Sean Feely] [Text] Johannesburg Mar 30 SAPA -- South Africa would seek an international credit rating as the first step in re-entering global capital markets, African National Congress economist Maria Ramos said Wednesday [30 March]. She told an ANC meeting with business leaders in Johannesburg a new government was keen to tap international markets following the country's absence for most of the last ten years, bar a 400-million German marks issue in September 1991. Ms Ramos said a return to these markets would assist the country in improving the maturity structure and reducing the cost of the debt portfolio. South Africa has been inhibited from approaching world capital markets for funds due to previous apartheid governments and, since 1991, the high perceived risks of the country's political transition and domestic violence. The Transitional Executive Council's finance sub-council is preparing a strategy for the country's return, likely after the April polls which are expected to be won by the ANC. Ms Ramos said domestic markets would continue to be important and the ANC wanted to improve the operation and capacity of the capital market. A new government's responsibility would be to ensure economic policy certainty and credibility to achieve efficient borrowings. Ms Ramos said an independent central bank and autonomous auditor- general's office would help to nurture a sound and stable financial system. ANC money and finance analyst Neil Morrison assured the 500- strong gathering of business people the Reserve Bank would not be hindered in its key task of protecting the value of the currency. The independence of the bank was critical to the establishment of financial credibility as well as having a sobering influence on fiscal policy, he said.
