FBIS4-18343 "drweu064_n_94004" FBIS-WEU-94-064 Daily Report 21 Mar 1994 NORDIC COUNTRIES Norway * Editorial: EU Opponents Lack `Political Realism' * Editorial: EU Opponents Lack `Political Realism' 94P20588A Oslo AFTENPOSTEN in Norwegian 21 Mar 94 p 14 94P20588A Oslo AFTENPOSTEN Norwegian CSO [Editorial: "EEA Argument"] [Text] What position should Norway take in regard to the EU [European Union] if the outcome of the upcoming referendum is a rejection of EU membership? The two parties opposed to the EU, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, have become embroiled in a discussion of this matter. The positions taken confirm our impression that the leadership in both parties is lacking in political realism. The one who most clearly demonstrates this is, surprisingly, former Foreign Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik. It does not at all come as a surprise when Center Party leader Anne Enger Lahnstein thinks we should cancel the EEA [European Economic Area] agreement, even in a situation where Sweden and Finland become members of the EU, and Norway remains outside. Bondevik, the Christian People's Party leader, for his part strongly warns against abolishing the EEA agreement in the case of Norway remaining outside the EU. Given the current conditions, it does not look as if a majority in the Storting can be obtained to support the Center Party's stance on the EEA issue. It is, however, quite unrealistic and nearly dishonest when the leader of the Christian People's Party tries to make the voters believe that if the referendum goes against EU membership we can just fall back on the EEA. Bondevik, too, should admit that we will have a very difficult and unclear situation in our relationship to the EU if only Norway remains outside the EU together with Iceland. In that situation, Norway would have neither the power nor the authority to determine the further fate of the EEA. Should Norway say no to the EU, the chances of effecting a continuation of the EEA in its present form in the ensuing negotiations would be very small.
