FBIS3-21187 "jpjst010__l94010" JPRS-JST-94-010L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Japan 8 March 1994 Science & Technology Policy/Economic Competitiveness Mitsui Shipbuilding and Engineering Intensifying Search for Advanced U.S. Technology 94FE0080D Tokyo NIKKAN KOGYO SHIMBUN in Japanese 7 Oct 93 p 5 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 94FE0080D Tokyo NIKKAN KOGYO SHIMBUN Language: Japanese Article Type:CSO [Text] Mitsui Shipbuilding and Engineering (Jiro Hoshino, president) is intensifying its search for strategic alliances in new businesses in the United States. Mitsui's Global Tech, a U.S. corporation, has already invested in a genetic engineering firm. With the move of Global Tech's headquarters to Washington, D.C., Mitsui plans to ally with U.S. companies in fields such as environmental technology and cooling systems. Three years ago Mitsui set up Global Tech in the United States, then created Rio Grande Development (Albuquerque, New Mexico) as a joint venture with BDM International, a leading Defense Department contractor known for its automotive airbag manufacturing. Rio Grande invests in start-up companies and helps them even with tasks such product development. Rio Grande has shown results by investing in Cell Robotics, a genetic engineering company which soon is expected to commercialize technology to extract single cells and manipulate them using genetic engineering. Since the alliance with BDM was on a three-year contract, Global Tech is moving its headquarters to Arlington, Virginia, a suburb of Washington, D.C., to plan alliances with national research institutes, start-up companies, and large corporations clustered in that area. According to Hiroshi Takeuchi, vice president of Global Tech, one promising area is environmental technology to address problems such as systems to comply with freon regulations, cooling systems for industrial machinery, and management of toxic wastes and discarded tires. It's attractive because the Clinton administration is calling for industry advances in this area. More than 100 Japanese companies have set up offices in the Washington, D.C., area to collect information and lobby. Mitsui's mission of Japan-U.S. business alliances makes it unusual.
