FBIS3-46976 "dreas005_g_94002" FBIS-EAS-94-005 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Jan 1994 SOUTHEAST ASIA Burma SLORC Plans Additional Trade Gateways BK0501151794 Rangoon Radio Burma in Burmese 1330 GMT 5 Jan 94 BK0501151794 Rangoon Radio Burma Language: Burmese Article Type:BFN [Excerpts] A coordination meeting to expand gateways for regular trade with other countries through border towns was held in Yangon [Rangoon] at 1300 today in the meeting hall of the Army commander in chief's office. Lieutenant General Maung Aye, deputy commander in chief of defense services and Army commander in chief, attended and delivered a speech. [passage omitted] Lt. Gen. Maung Aye explained that the state is collectively implementing the market-oriented economy, so this meeting was called to identify new markets quickly for exports and to expand gateways for regular trade with other countries in accordance with economic planning objectives. Maung Aye noted that to develop trade, constructive discussions should be made on regular trade with other countries, not only from the border towns of Tachilek, Wantong, Muse, Tamu, Maungdaw but also from the coastal towns of Kawthaung, Mergui, Moulmein, Bassein, and Akyab. Continuing, the Army chief said since it is the fourth quarter of the financial year, it is the time to review achievements in various economic sectors. Next, SLORC Secretary-2 Lt. Gen. Tin U, National Planning and Economic Development Minister Brig. Gen. Abel, Trade Minister Lt. Gen. Tun Kyi, Agriculture Minister Lt. Gen. Myint Aung, Finance and Revenue Minister Brig. Gen. Win Tin, Livestock Breeding and Fisheries Minister Brig. Gen. Maung Maung, Forestry Affairs Minister Lt. Gen. Chit Swe, Transport Minister Lt. Gen. Thein Win, and Energy Minister U Khin Maung Thein presented suggestions. The meeting concluded at 1530 after a closing speech by Lt. Gen. Maung Aye. It has been learned that in order to develop trade swiftly and to upgrade border trade to regular trade, efforts are being made to officially open the border towns of Tachilek, Wantong, Muse, Tamu, Maungdaw and the coastal towns of Kawthaung, Mergui, Tavoy, (?Kyaukyedwin), Ye, (?Zibyugon), Bassein, and Akyab as gateways for trade in the near future.
