FBIS4-1157 "drafr079_a_94004" FBIS-AFR-94-079 Daily Report 23 Apr 1994 CENTRAL AFRICA Burundi Government Issues Communique on Arms Possession Government Issues Communique on Arms Possession Sets Deadline for Weapons Turn-in EA2304150094 Bujumbura Radio-Television Nationale du Burundi Radio in English 1130 GMT 23 Apr 94 EA2304150094 Bujumbura Radio-Television Nationale du Burundi Radio English BFN [Text] The Government of Burundi has taken an important decision to disarm the population following the persistence of insecurity, especially in some parts of the capital Bujumbura where gun fires have been heard over the past week. The decision was taken yesterday, following a security meeting here last Thursday [21 April] by the interim President Sylvestre Ntibantunganya, along with all partners in the security issue. The decision was read on the state radio last night by the interim spokesman of the government, Issa Ngendakumana. Marthias Nderegi has the contents. [Nderegi] If the situation of insecurity will continue to deteriorate, the country will shortly collapse, as the communique read by the ad-interim spokesman of the government said. That is why we want to restore security in the mayorship of Bujumbura and the remainder of the country. So these decisions have been taken by the government. The government condemns actions of some elements and armed groups who [words indistinct] and insecurity in the mayorship of Bujumbura. The government urged armed groups who continue to (?trouble) [word indistinct] of Bujumbura to quickly stop shooting. It appeals to soldiers to observe discipline in their daily activities and resort to weapons only in case of defense. [The government] urged any person carrying weapons illegally to soon hand it in at the nearest zone, commune or province before tomorrow 1800 hours local time [1600 GMT on 24 April]. It recalls the population that any illegal carrying of weapons is forbidden and that anyone who will go astray will be seriously punished. The government also urged that all roads which were obstructed be soon opened so as to allow free circulation of the population. It also urged that all inquiries touching on the criminal act have to be followed and finished. Firstly, the government called upon the population to understand and respect all those measures which attempt to assist to (?restore) security and peace for all the country.
