FBIS3-13627 "drnes052_a_94003" FBIS-NES-94-052 Document Type:Daily Report 17 Mar 1994 ARAB AFRICA Algeria Zeroual Receives Message From Syrian Foreign Minister Press Statement Issued JN1703105094 Damascus Syrian Arab Republic Radio Network in Arabic 0515 GMT 17 Mar 94 JN1703105094 Damascus Syrian Arab Republic Radio Network Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN ["Press statement" issued in Algiers on 16 March] [Text] Faruq al-Shar', foreign minister of the Syrian Arab Republic, visited Algeria on 3-4 Shawwal 1414 Hegira, corresponding to 15-16 March 1994, as a special envoy of His Excellency President Hafiz al-Asad of the Syrian Arab Republic. During his stay in Algiers, he was received by His Excellency President Lamine Zeroual, who received a message from al-Shar' addressed to him by his brother His Excellency President Hafiz al-Asad of the Syrian Arab Republic. A round of talks was held between Foreign Minister Mohamed Salah Dembri and Syrian Foreign Minister Faruq al-Shar'. Delegations from the two countries took part in the talks. The two sides reviewed the overall fraternal ties between the two countries and their future prospects. They decided to revive the meetings of the Joint Syrian-Algerian Committee in Algiers in June 1994. The two sides also exchanged views on Arab and international issues of common interest, foremost among which is the Middle East peace process, and the obstacles plaguing it due to Israeli intransigence, procrastination, and attempts to drag the concerned Arab sides into partial solutions. They agreed that the desired regional peace must be just and comprehensive and grounded in the relevant international legitimacy resolutions, particularly UN Security Council Resolutions 242, 338, and 425. With regard to the occupied Syrian Golan, the two sides reasserted the need for Israel to effect a complete withdrawal from the occupied Syrian Golan in accordance with the relevant international legitimacy resolutions. They also demanded complete Israeli withdrawal from all other occupied Arab territories. The two sides also said that the restoration of the legitimate national rights of the Palestinian people must be guaranteed. The two sides reiterated their condemnation of the heinous massacre committed by Israeli settlers at the holy Ibrahimi Mosque in Hebron, the occupied Palestinian West Bank. They appealed to the international community to shoulder its responsibilities in this regard to ensure the protection of the Palestinian people in the occupied Arab territories. The two sides underscored that the drastic situation in the occupied Arab territories requires the termination of the Israeli occupation and the dismantlement of settlements in accordance with international legitimacy and the relevant UN resolutions. The two sides examined the overall Arab situation and the sincere efforts required to rehabilitate Arab solidarity. They maintained that all efforts aimed at achieving a serious Arab reconciliation must be encouraged. The two sides also exchanged views on the topics listed on the agenda of the next ordinary session of the Arab League Ministerial Council. Mindful of the importance of the issues pertaining to Mediterranean security and cooperation, and in light of European initiatives in this regard, the two sides urged an Arab initiative to call for a seminar to be attended by the Arab Mediterranean states for consultations and coordination, and also to crystallize joint positions toward these issues.
