FBIS4-12942 "drnes073dd_94009" FBIS-NES-94-073 Daily Report 14 Apr 1994 Palestinian Affairs Alliance of Palestinian Forces To Meet in Damascus Alliance of Palestinian Forces To Meet in Damascus JN1404120694 Amman AL-DUSTUR in Arabic 14 Apr 94 p 28 JN1404120694 Amman AL-DUSTUR Arabic BFN [By Nabil 'Amr] [Text] The Alliance of Palestinian Forces [APF] will begin meetings in Damascus on 20 April. The APF includes 10 Palestinian organizations which oppose the Oslo and Cairo agreements and all the resulting arrangements, including arrangements to implement Palestinian self-rule in Gaza and Jericho. The Alliance also includes such organizations as the Islamic Hamas Movement, which rejects the achievement of a political solution or any peace with Israel. AL-DUSTUR private sources said that the APF organizations, which met in the Libyan capital Tripoli last month under the auspices of Colonel Mu'ammar al-Qadhdhafi, have become closer than ever before. This is especially true since they feel that the PLO leadership, which is negotiating with Israel over self-rule arrangements, has overlooked the issue of returning deportees and releasing detainees. The PLO leadership is listening to Israeli conditions which demand that the Palestinian self-rule authority bans activities by Hamas, the largest of the 10 APF organizations. These sources said that the 10 organizations, which will discuss the APF's bylaws, began to prepare their ideas for the next stage of struggle in light of developments in the Palestinian arena. They also began to formulate a popular and organizational action plan inside and outside the occupied territories. According to these organizations, this plan should foil the mission of the Palestinian self-rule authority and thwart the Oslo and Cairo agreements. For his part, Ibrahim Ghawshah, official Hamas spokesman in Jordan, said that Israel will not give the Palestinians anything and that the Palestinian people inside the occupied territories are now more prepared for a militant confrontation with the Israeli enemy. This comes at a time when there are reports of strong indignation within the Palestinian political circles.
