FBIS4-2121 "drchi066_a_94001" FBIS-CHI-94-066 Daily Report 6 Apr 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS General Delegate Proposes Guiding Principles for UN Peacekeeping Role Delegate Proposes Guiding Principles for UN Peacekeeping Role OW0604073794 Beijing XINHUA in English 0724 GMT 6 Apr 94 OW0604073794 Beijing XINHUA English BFN [Text] United Nations, April 5 (XINHUA) -- It is an urgent task for the United Nations to establish a set of guiding principles to ensure a solid political and legal foundation for peace-keeping operations, said a Chinese delegate here today. Addressing the U.N. General Assembly's Special Committee on Peace-Keeping Operations, Zhang Yan said it is highly important and timely for the committee to re-examine the issue in all aspects so as to sum up experience and seek improvements. Zhang said the Chinese delegation believes that the following four issues should be focused on. -- Strict observance of the purposes and principles of the U.N. Charter. Involvement in whatever forms should help maintain the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the country concerned, conform the common desire of the people in the country and obtain the prior agreement of the parties concerned. -- Adherence to the principle of settling disputes by peaceful means and refraining from using force. The attempt to stop war by expanding it is undesirable. -- The key to improving the effectiveness of peace-keeping operations lies in the full preparedness and acting within capacity. The Security Council must act prudently in its decision-making and set forth specific and feasible mandates and appropriate timetable. -- Assurance of the U.N.'s leading role in command and control in peace-keeping operations. A collective U.N. action based on the will of its member states must be under the exclusive operational command of the U.N. U.N. peace-keeping operations have witnessed unprecedented development and reached an all-time high in terms of number, scale and scope of their mandates, Zhang added. Despite their achievements, U.N. peace-keeping operations are encountering many new problems as they develop so rapidly. The U.N. has 71,816 military and civil police peacekeepers deployed in the world's hot spots for 17 operations, including 30,500 in Croatia, Bosnia-Herzegovina and Macedonia.
