FBIS4-67613 "jptep002__l94016" JPRS-TEP-94-002-L JPRS Epidemiology 18 January 1994 LATIN AMERICA ARGENTINA Salta Province Lacks Funds To Fight Cholera Salta Province Lacks Funds To Fight Cholera 94WE0177B Buenos Aires LA NACION in Spanish 18 Jan 94 p 12--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 94WE0177B Buenos Aires LA NACION Spanish CSO [Article by Special Correspondent Andres Villalonga: "More Promises Than Solutions To Control Third Outbreak of Cholera"] [Excerpt] Salta--Death and disease continue to ravage this province, the epicenter of the third outbreak of cholera, where every day the largest numbers of cholera cases are reported in Argentina. Poor neighborhoods and settlements cover large areas where drinking water and sewage systems are in short supply. The authorities have said that just a few hours ago another death was reported in the Lerma Valley, and in the San Martin and Rivadavia departments the disease continues to spread. The feeling is that this outbreak will worsen over the course of the summer, for even higher temperatures are predicted. There is no sign of government prevention projects or campaigns, so more deaths and cases of cholera are expected. Nothing To Be Done The deputy governor in charge of internal matters, Ricardo Gomez Diez, attempted to explain to LA NACION the lack of projects to put a definitive end to this disease in his province. "Well, to solve the problem we need over $80 million. What the national government sends us is not enough, so there is very little we can do," he said. He continued: "Even if we had the money the projects would take a lot of time, and the solutions would come too late; it will be a long time before cholera goes away. We will have to get used to the idea that there will be cholera for a while longer." When allocating blame, the official said: "We are responsible, but the national Ministry of Health and Social Action also shares this responsibility. We have a profound economic crisis here. We had a shortfall of 16 million pesos and now we are down to 5 million; last year the national government gave us 1.2 million pesos in aid, but that is not enough." [passage omitted]
