FBIS3-59428 "jpeer002__s94004" JPRS-EER-94-002-S Document Type:JPRS Document Title:East Europe SUPPLEMENT 14 January 1994 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA Serb Assembly To Discuss War Profiteering AU1001164494 Belgrade Radio Beograd Network in Serbo-Croatian 1400 GMT 10 Jan 94 AU1001164494 Belgrade Radio Beograd Network Language: Serbo-Croatian Article Type:BFN ["Excerpt" from interview with Vladimir Lukic, prime minister of the Serbian Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina, by Momir Brkic; place and date not given -- recorded] [Text] [Brkic] You mentioned the rule of law. What problems are you encountering? I am also referring to the complaints that we are not effectively fighting against war profiteering, not only in this region but also elsewhere. [Lukic] Those who have not experienced a war cannot easily understand all the byproducts of the war. We certainly have things that people could hardly imagine in peace, let alone plan them. Of course, in addition to the people's great patriotism, the readiness of a large number of people, young and old, to invest everything in their country and their people, there is also a number of people who want to get rich through the war, to make a profit, to avoid their patriotic obligations. Things like that do exist. However, I personally think that these people do not deserve the attention that was given to them in the press, in the media. I am convinced that there are fewer of them than alleged. On the other hand, it is in fact them who are spreading the stories, often about those who have nothing to do with war profiteering, simply because they want to enlarge the circle of such people and in this way shift the blame onto someone else. I am convinced that they will be dealt with as soon as society organizes itself a bit better, as soon as there is more stable peace, or when peace is established. I would not pay too much attention to those people. However, we must continue preventing them and not allow them to carry out legal or any other work. What is important in my view is that good businessmen and all those who are carrying out business activities in a correct way, and who are indeed helping our struggle, should not be implicated in this. Therefore, war profiteers must be put on the agenda, but they should not be the main point of the agenda of our work today.
