FBIS3-13895 "drnes055_r_94001" FBIS-NES-94-055 Document Type:Daily Report 21 Mar 1994 India New Delhi Asks Pakistan To Resume Talks on All Issues BK2103161094 Delhi All India Radio Network in English 1530 GMT 21 Mar 94 BK2103161094 Delhi All India Radio Network Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] India today expressed its desire for an early resumption of foreign secretary-level talks with Pakistan. This was conveyed by the foreign secretary, Mr. K. Srinivasan, to the Pakistan's high commissioner, Mr. Riaz Khokhar, in New Delhi today. Seeking an early positive response from Pakistan, the foreign secretary said the talks can either be held in New Delhi or Islamabad at the convenience of Pakistan. Mr. Srinivasan conveyed New Delhi's formal reply to Pakistan's comments and counterproposals on the six Indian nonpapers. Regretting Pakistan's negative approach, Mr. Srinivasan reiterated India's desire for a dialogue with Pakistan under the Simla agreement on all outstanding issues. The foreign secretary conveyed to the high commissioner that India's proposals were formulated in absolute realism and flexibility, signaling its preparedness to carry forward the process of normalization of bilateral relations. According to External Affairs Ministry sources, Mr. Srinivasan touched upon each of India's nonpapers and gave an assessment of Pakistan's counterproposals. On the proposal to maintain peace and tranquillity on the Line of Control, the foreign secretary said it is aimed at eliminating tension in the relations and is prepared without any prejudice to the positions taken by the two governments on larger issues. On Siachen, India regretted that Pakistan has disavowed the understanding reached at the talks in New Delhi during November 1992. However, New Delhi is prepared to hold talks on Siachen based on pre-1992 talks. Regarding Sir Creek maritime boundary issue, the foreign secretary requested Pakistan to reconsider India's proposal. Regarding Tulbul navigation project, Mr. Srinivasan reminded Pakistan that its comment is factually incorrect. Indian proposal was in the form of a draft agreement which New Delhi is prepared to ratify and wanted Pakistan's response to that. Regarding India's proposal to initiate confidence-building measures, he said Pakistan's response was not forthcoming. Hoping that Islamabad will respond, Mr. Srinivasan said these measures will help reduce tensions and improve bilateral relations. India welcomes Pakistan's suggestion to include more areas in the ambit of joint commission. On Pakistan's nonpapers regarding the modalities of conducting a plebiscite in Jammu and Kashmir, India dismissed that there is nothing new in the proposal and New Delhi's stand was made clear during the foreign secretary-level talks. Mr. Srinivasan also took up with the Pakistan high commissioner the restrictions imposed on the Indian Consulate in Karachi by totally blocking the access to the consulate for the local public. He hoped the Pakistan authorities will allow the Indian Consulate to carry out its functions normally.
