FBIS3-37821 "drsov036_a_94045" FBIS-SOV-94-036 Document Type:Daily Report 23 Feb 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Moscow `Not Quite Satisfied' With Turks' Rules on Straits LD2202185494 Moscow INTERFAX in English 1505 GMT 22 Feb 94 LD2202185494 Moscow INTERFAX Language: English Article Type:BFN [From the "Diplomatic Panorama" feature: Reports by diplomatic correspondents Dmitriy Voskoboinikov, Igor Porshnev, Vitaliy Trubetskoy and others] [Text] "Russia is not quite satisfied" with the rules for the passage of ships through the Black Sea straits, Bosporus and Dardanelles, established by Turkey early this year. A Russian delegation led by the First Deputy Director of the Foreign Ministry's legal department, Yakov Ostrovskiy, left for Ankara on Monday to discuss this problem. Interfax learned this from a high-ranking Russian diplomat in charge of relations with Turkey. The passage of ships through the Black Sea straits is regulated by the Montreux Convention signed in 1938 by the USSR, Turkey and some other countries, he explained. "Provisions of that convention satisfy Russia. As for Ankara, while proclaiming its adherence to the convention verbally, in fact it interprets the document rather freely," the diplomat said. The new Turkish rules, he explained, stipulate that the ships passing through the straits must necessarily be accompanied by pilots (Interfax's note: under the convention pilots can be used only with the captains' consent). Moreover, Interfax's interviewee noted, Turkey's provision that large ships must pass through Bosporus strictly in their turn "is not quite in line" with the convention. "Under the new Turkish rules, when a large ship enters the strait, the remaining ones must wait. This creates numerous inconveniences," the Russian diplomat said. Turkey established "a very complicated procedure" for the passage of nuclear-armed ships, he pointed out. Preliminary notifications and the observance of some other formalities are required for the passage of such ships. "This is understandable. Istanbul is a city populated by 12 million people, and any accident may result in great casualties. Nevertheless we believe, and our view is shared by many Turks, that such issues should be resolved in the framework of an international conference. Such a conference may be convened in the near future," the diplomat concluded.
