FBIS3-36241 "drsov024_a_94012" FBIS-SOV-94-024 Document Type:Daily Report 4 February 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Troop Withdrawal Talks With Estonia Continue Russia Urged To Step Up Withdrawal LD0302190094 Moscow INTERFAX in English 1505 GMT 3 Feb 94 LD0302190094 Moscow INTERFAX Language: English Article Type:BFN [From the "Diplomatic Panorama" feature: Reports by Diplomatic Correspondents Dmitriy Voskoboynikov, Igor Porshnev, Vitaliy Trubetskoy, and others] [Text] Tallinn understnds the difficulties Russia is experiencing in connection with its troops withdrawal from Estonia. That is why it agrees to the time for withdrawal fixed by the Russian side (before August 31st, 1994: Interfax note), and does not insist on an earlier date, Estonia's Ambassador to Russia, Yuriy Kahn, told a news conference given on Thursday after the latest round of bilateral talks. The Estonian side, he said, has only one wish: that Russia step up the withdrawal of units stationed in the center of Tallinn which are in direct proximity to the building of Estonia's parliament. The diplomat expressed surprise at the Russian delegation's refusal to present a schedule for troops withdrawal on the grounds that the problem of Russian military retirees in Estonia remains unresolved. According to him, earlier the two sides agreed "to resort to no linkages, and discuss every issue separately." "This road leads to a deadlock. Linkages can only turn the negotiating process into bargaining," he said. According to the ambassador, those in the Russian military who retired after the time when Estonia gained its independence (August 20th, 1991: Interfax's note) must leave Estonia together with the withdrawing troops. "It's odd that Russia has not granted these people any legal or social guarantees. It seems to have decided to leave them in Estonia's care. These people fought for Russia, and such an attitude to them on the part of Moscow is inadmissible," he said. With reference to the package of "border issues" Kahn noted that Russia "seems to have begun to understand that the administrative line fixed by Stalin cannot serve as a state border between the two countries." "When determining our border we continue to be guided by the peace treaty signed with Russia in Tartu (in 1920: Interfax note), and we believe that Moscow has territorial claims to us, not vice versa," Kahn said. According to the ambassador, a meeting should be organized between the Russian and Estonian presidents "so as to reach serious solutions." "Unfortunately, Russia's Foreign Ministry believes that all issues should be tentatively coordinated between lower-level officials, after which the presidents will only sign the documents already drafted. We do not share this approach," the diplomat said.
