FBIS3-33072 "drlat033_o_94009" FBIS-LAT-94-033 Document Type:Daily Report 17 Feb 1994 Colombia Further on Accord on Medellin People's Militias Disbanding PA1602185194 Santa Fe de Bogota Inravision Television Cadena 1 in Spanish 0000 GMT 16 Feb 94 PA1602185194 Santa Fe de Bogota Inravision Television Cadena 1 Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Report by Juan Ortiz from the "24 Hours" newscast] [Text] Today the People's Militias and the Valle de Aburra independent militias signed a preliminary agreement to disband. These are the principal groups of this kind that exist in Medellin, Antioquia Department, and control the city's northeastern area. They emerged years ago as instruments of self-defense against neighborhood violence and extortion by drug traffickers' henchmen. The preliminary agreement took effect early today in Granizal neighborhood, where militias gathered surrounded by a crowd. They were transferred under police escort to a detente camp in Santa Elena district, 30 minutes from Medellin's downtown. The negotiations began with the reading of the preliminary agreement and acknowledgment of this event by Government and Interior Minister Fabio Villegas. He described it as courageous and as an investment in the future. [Begin recording] [Villegas] This is an example of how they can achieve their political goals, how it is possible to strive for their ideals amid tolerance, pluralism, and respect for the rights and lives of our people. [People's Militias' spokesman Dennis Santamaria] It is absurd to continue with the armed struggle. We have to think of helping the country progress from another perspective, from the political and social perspective. [end recording] The preliminary agreement recognizes these militia members as a political force. They will have six negotiators who must remain in the camp and five spokesmen who will mediate with the government on conditions for social investment for their communities and security in the neighborhoods, the most critical issue, since they fear an invasion by the militias of the Simon Bolivar National Guerrilla Coordinating Board once they disband and become legal.
