FBIS3-4945 "dreas042_h_94005" FBIS-EAS-94-042 Document Type:Daily Report 3 Mar 1994 Brunei, Malaysia & Singapore Malaysia Commentary Discusses Philippines Economic Ties BK0203103994 Kuala Lumpur Voice of Malaysia in English 0800 GMT 2 Mar 94 BK0203103994 Kuala Lumpur Voice of Malaysia Language: English Article Type:BFN [Station commentary] [Text] The prime minister Datuk Sri Dr. Mahathir Mohamed's official visit to the Philippines, the first by a Malaysian premier to that country, is already yielding results. The Philippine Government is keen and serious about enhancing trade relations with Malaysia. And this should be the case with [words indistinct] ASEAN. In response to Dr. Mahathir and his delegation's visit to the Philippines in February, a high-powered multimember delegation from the Philippines paid a two-day visit last weekend to the Federal Territory of Labuan off the East Malaysian state of Sabah. The Philippine delegation was truly interested in knowing more about the development of Labuan as an offshore financial center and also about foreign investment opportunities in both the East Malaysian states of Sabah and Sarawak. What is encouraging is that the visit showed the commitment of the Philippine Government to the development of the East ASEAN Growth Area. The visiting mission was given a detailed briefing on the investment opportunities available in Labuan as well as in Sabah and Sarawak. It is noteworthy that the Philippine delegation's visit was the first by a well-represented government and private sector mission from that country. What seemed to interest them was the function of Labuan as an international offshore financial center, or IOFC. The delegation included a group of bankers who appreciated the IOFC concept being adopted in Labuan. The president of the Philippine National Bank has been quoted as saying his bank was considering setting up an offshore bank in Labuan. The bank would like to finalize joint financial undertakings not only with the Malaysian Government but also with the private sector. Cooperation between the Philippines and Malaysia is certainly on the way up. One of Malaysia's leading companies is currently involved in the development of infrastructure in the Philippines. Malaysian participation in the power supply, stock development, and telecommunication sector will also be welcomed in the Philippines. [Words indistinct], both countries can help each other to promote their respective tourism industry. The idea of setting up a regional air link needs serious consideration. The visit by the Philippine president, Fidel Ramos, to Malaysia last year and the reciprocal visit by Dr. Mahathir have opened the way for increased cooperation between the two ASEAN partners. The private sector of the two countries should take this opportunity to go into joint ventures for their mutual benefit.
