FBIS4-33556 "drlat110_b_94005" FBIS-LAT-94-110 Daily Report 6 Jun 1994 Dominican Republic Haiti Jonassaint Government Responds to Military Threat Jonassaint Government Responds to Military Threat FL0706221694 Port-au-Prince LE NOUVELLISTE in French No 34.767 6 Jun 94 p 1 FL0706221694 Port-au-Prince LE NOUVELLISTE French BFN [Press release by the Jonassaint government responding to the threat of military intervention in Haiti.] [Text] 1. The provisional Government of the Republic has noted with stupefaction the AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE dispatch dated 3 June in which a Haitian citizen has just demanded a military intervention by a foreign power against his country. 2. The provisional Government of the Republic is amazed that the United Nations charges this government with state delinquency by unanimously legalizing this cowardly attack by the planet's superpower against the small, independent, sovereign Republic of Haiti, still a statuary member of this organization. 3. In view of this unanimity of international policy in favor of organized genocide on behalf of anarchy and fanaticism, regardless of logic, in defiance of international law, regardless even of reason, the Government of the Republic believes that it must protest, and as a matter of fact, does protest against the military option considered and being closely executed by the Navy despite the sane opinion of polite society, carrying on regardless of the resolutions of Congress. 4. The provisional Government reiterates to all the great and small powers of the world its deepest feeling of friendship and good faith in cooperating with the international community for the defense of peace and the promotion of the development of nations. 5. The provisional Government stresses to all, however, that any attack will trigger an automatic reaction of defense, even suicide. 6. Therefore, the order has been passed to the Haitian Armed Forces to remember under these circumstances the strategic traditions of the country by taking all proper measures to organize civil defense for the benefit of the national population. 7. The homeland remains above all sacrifice!
