FBIS4-13054 "drnes074yy_94009" FBIS-NES-94-074 Daily Report 17 Apr 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Arab-Israeli Talks Multilateral Talks on Water Begin in Oman Multilateral Talks on Water Begin in Oman Beilin on Palestinian Water Authority TA1704154894 Tel Aviv IDF Radio in Hebrew 1400 GMT 17 Apr 94 TA1704154894 Tel Aviv IDF Radio Hebrew BFN [Telephone interview with Deputy Foreign Minister Yosi Beilin, in Oman, by Ya'el Dan in Israel -- live] [Excerpt] [Dan] Where are we catching you? Are you finished with the first day of deliberations or are you still in the middle of it? [Beilin] The first day of deliberations is actually over. [Dan] How were you impressed by the statements made at the opening session, particularly the remarks of the Omani foreign minister? Do you think they are important? [Beilin] Yes, definitely. I think the Omani foreign minister's remarks reflected how vastly interested the Gulf countries are in the water issue. It is not just another topic of discussion, but a critical issue to their future. They spend a fortune on water, and they definitely want to make every possible effort to increase their water resources and lower desalination costs. In this respect, the conference here is very important. Oman has been subjected to the criticism of several Arab countries which were not thrilled about Qatar and Oman hosting such conferences. The Omani foreign minister defended the hosting of the conference and spoke in very positive terms about the political process in the Middle East and the wish to put an end to the Israeli-Arab conflict and bring about normalization. [Dan] Could you tell us what happened today? How much progress did you make? [Beilin] Today we heard statements by individual and blocs of countries about specific projects in the region. Although we are talking about small-scale projects, I believe these deliberations will for the first time culminate in concrete agreements about new projects and their financing. Oman proposed to concentrate all worldwide information about water desalination in Muscat, seeing that it conducted a very secret study on the issue. I think this proposal will meet with unanimous approval. In any case, we have already expressed our consent. The Palestinians raised the question of a water authority in the context of the Oslo agreement, and we expressed our consent to this matter as well, as long as the authority remains within this context and the multilateral forum [sentence as heard]. The Europeans and the Americans specifically mentioned several projects which could be executed shortly. We proposed to discuss projects dealing with water saving and the prevention of leaks from water mains. The general atmosphere is very positive and everybody has remarked on the positive attitude of the participants toward the issues raised so far. At this point, there has not been even a trace of confrontation, contrary to previous conferences which there fraught with very high tension. [Dan] I would like to confirm that I understood you correctly. Did you definitely say that Israel agreed to the establishment of an independent Palestinian water authority? To the best of our knowledge, Israel has so far opposed such a move. [Beilin] Israel agreed in principle -- and this is also stipulated in the Oslo agreement -- to the establishment of Palestinian authorities within the framework of the Declaration of Principles [DOP] signed on 13 September 1993. In their statements this morning, the Palestinians asserted that their water authority conforms with the criteria spelled out in the DOP. The moment they clarified this, we expressed our consent to such an authority. [passage omitted]
