FBIS3-21913 "jptdd012__l94038" JPRS-TDD-94-012-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Narcotics 12 March 1994 LATIN AMERICA COLOMBIA Videotape Purportedly `Proves' Former Escobar Lieutenant `Alive and Well' PA1603171394 Santa Fe de Bogota Inravision Television Cadena 1 in Spanish 1800 GMT 12 Mar 94 PA1603171394 Santa Fe de Bogota Inravision Television Cadena 1 Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Report from the "NTC News" newscast] [Text] It was believed that one of the first victims of the internal Medellin Cartel feud was Jose Antonio Ocampo, alias Peluza. According to several reports, Ocampo, who was one of Pablo Escobar's lieutenants, was murdered after falling from the drug lord's graces. The name of Jose Antonio Ocampo appears in classified official files as an active member of the financial branch of the battered Medellin Cartel. The Army's 4th Brigade arrested him in Uraba in 1989, but he was released because of insufficient evidence. The authorities know he contributed to maintaining the narco-terrorist war for years. He rebelled against his boss and Escobar sentenced him to death. Peluza managed to escape the internal purge launched against Moncada and Galiano at the Envigado Prison complex. Authorities have a video tape that proves Peluza is alive and well. NTC News, exclusively, has managed to get a hold of the tape. Jose Antonio Ocampo is currently being held hostage. [Begin Ocampo recording] I am very happy to be able to send this message. [end recording] These pictures show Jose Antonio Ocampo, alias Peluza, where he is being held. He looks bad. Two men bearing submachine guns guard him. Peluza taped a dramatic call to his family to save his life. [Begin Ocampo recording] I hope and I know that you are praying to [words indistinct], my and your queen, for me to leave here. A thousand kisses. I love you all very much. [end recording] On the tape, Peluza asks his family to act wisely. He begs his friends for solidarity. He orders his family to sell his properties and horses to collect the $2 million ransom.
