FBIS3-17423 "drsov058_b_94016" FBIS-SOV-94-058 Document Type:Daily Report 24 Mar 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Economic Issues Government Discusses 1994 Social, Economic Forecasts LD2403130494 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1220 GMT 24 Mar 94 LD2403130494 Moscow ITAR-TASS Language: English Article Type:BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Ivan Ivanov] [Text] Moscow March 24 TASS -- The decline in Russian production for 1994 will amount to 12 per cent, and consumer prices will rise by five times, according to the Russian Government's social and economic forecasts for 1994, discussed by the government presidium on Thursday. The report is intended to be sent to the State Duma as an accompaniment to the draft federal budget. Aleksandr Shokhin, the main speaker at today's meeting, reported that the Economics Ministry had prepared four main types of forecasts. The first forecast is called inertial-adaptational, implying the virtual continuation of the present state of the economy. The second envisages strict monetary policy, characterized by the activation of market mechanisms, the lowering of inflation, and the continuation of the sharp decline in production. The third forecasts active fundamental restructuring, which presupposes the creation of a foundation for the implementation of basic economic restructuring, with inflation higher than it is at present, and with less financial balance. Shokin considers the fourth alternative the best. It supposes a policy of active economic stabilisation, accompanied by moderately strict monetary policy and designed for a two-front fight against inflation, by limiting state expenditures and by selective stimulation of production. The advantages of the fourth alternative stem from the state's limited financial resources for implementing qualitative structural reforms this year. It is, in effect, based on selective support for highly-effective state enterprises, on the financing of quick-return investment projects, and also on widening the sources of financing for the social sphere, especially concerning housing. According to the government's fourth forecast, Russia's gross national product (GNP) might fall by eight per cent, and industrial production might decline by 12 per cent. Overall agricultural produce would fall by seven per cent, production of energy resources, by four per cent. This variant forecasts a five to six per cent unemployment rate, which translates to about three million unemployed russians. The average growth of consumer prices would be 12 to 13 per cent a month, falling to 7 to 9 per cent monthly by the end of 1994. According to this prognosis, out of a 745 trillion rouble gnp, 3.9 per cent would be spent on state investments, three percent on state subsidies, 1.6 per cent on state expenditure on science and research, and five per cent of the GNP would be devoted to defense expenditures. Shokhin announced that the government's forecast for 1994 under a policy of active economic stabilisation was fairly optimistic and oriented towards resolving the main problems of economic reforms and getting the maximum use out of reform's advantages as soon as possible. Therefore, he concluded, such a task would be difficult, but completely realistic.
