FBIS3-50172 "dreeu016_p_94003" FBIS-EEU-94-016 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Jan 1994 POLAND Kovac in Warsaw for Talks With Walesa Leaders Want Cooperation LD2501165794 Prague Radiozurnal Radio Network in Czech 1500 GMT 25 Jan 94 LD2501165794 Prague Radiozurnal Radio Network Language: Czech Article Type:BFN [Text] Slovak President Michal Kovac today started his official visit to Poland. Miroslav Karas, our Warsaw correspondent, reports: [Karas] After his arrival by air shortly before noon, Michal Kovac first met his Polish counterpart for a half-hour talk. Lech Walesa stressed to journalists that this was the first visit of the president of independent Slovakia to Poland. We are neighbors, and we want to be good neighbors. We have a lot of internal political and economic problems, but their solution will bring us common results. I wish that nothing concerning us be undertaken in Europe without us. Regional cooperation is the future for the Europe of the 21st century, which will lead to the disappearance of borders, the Polish president said. According to Michal Kovac, the Slovak Republic considers friendship with Poland one of the most important cornerstones in the building of the international position of Slovakia. For the first time in history, a situation has been created in which not only Slovakia and Poland, but more countries of the Central European region, have common and identical interests, the Slovak president said and added that, even if we are trying to overcome the division of Europe, we realize that it will be a long-term and complicated process, and one has to realize the fact that the countries of the Visegrad Group have their specific interests in this process. In this connection, Kovac stressed that the Slovak Republic realizes the great significance of the mutual cooperation of the Visegrad Group countries in the sphere of security. Accepting the Partnership for Peace plan, which we will be concluding with NATO individually, should be an incentive for better cooperation and exchange of experiences. I am convinced that cooperation of the Visegrad Four is the most important thing we can contribute toward becoming bona fide members of NATO, Slovak President Michal Kovac said. In the afternoon, he met Polish Prime Minister Waldemar Pawlak, the minister of foreign economic relations, and Cardinal Glemp.
