FBIS3-17136 "drsov056_g_94002" FBIS-SOV-94-056 Document Type:Daily Report 23 Mar 1994 WESTERN REGION Belarus Defense Conversion Discussed LD2303120494 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1140 GMT 23 Mar 94 LD2303120494 Moscow ITAR-TASS Language: English Article Type:BFN [By BELINFORM-TASS correspondents Vladimir Glod and Leonid Tratsevskiy] [Text] Minsk March 23 TASS -- Official talks between the defence ministers of the United States and the Belarus Republic began here today. The U.S. secretary of defence arrived in the Belarus capital today. His negotiations with Colonel-General Pavel Kazlowski are proceeding behind closed doors. "One of the main subjects that will be discussed during the meeting is American aid to solve Belarusian conversion problems," First Deputy Defence Minister of the Belarus Republic Aleksandr Tushinskiy told BELINFORM. Tushinskiy is a prominent electronics specialist and first civilian appointed to the leadership of the republic's Defence Ministry. He is charged with the task of switching the defence industry to civilian rails. Tushinskiy said that Perry is expected to announce some Belarus- American conversion programmes, covering such Belarusian defence enterprises as "Belomo" and "Intergral." As a result of a tough contest carried out in the United States, several American partner firms have been selected for them, whose technologies, know-how and other parameters coincide with those of the Minsk plants. "During the American secretary's visit," Tushinskiy said, "we expect to sign a joint statement on the principles that will underlie the work of the Belarus-American conversion committee. An organisational meeting of this body will also be held." Tushinskiy stressed that this committee was set up as a result of previous Belarus-American meetings at top level and after repeated consultations between expert delegations of the two countries. The final results of the talks will become known today afternoon during a press conference that will be held here jointly by the U.S. secretary of defence and the Belarus defence minister.
