FBIS4-30556 "dreas124__a94001" FBIS-EAS-94-124-A Daily Report 21 Jun 1994 ANNEX Burma Minister Discusses Economic Issues Minister Discusses Economic Issues OW2306145294 Tokyo NIHON KEIZAI SHIMBUN in Japanese 21 Jun 94 Evening Edition p 5 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY OW2306145294 Tokyo NIHON KEIZAI SHIMBUN Japanese BFN [By correspondent Atsuki Maeyama] [Text] Rangoon, 21 June -- David Abel, Burma's minister of national planning and economic development, told a Keidanren [Japan Federation of Economic Organizations] economic mission (headed by Marubeni Corp. Chairman Kazuo Haruna) that the Burmese Government plans to enact "a privatization law" to promote a shift toward a market-oriented economy and facilitate foreign capital inflow. The Keidanren mission is currently visiting Burma. The minister also said the government will take measures to enable foreign firms to acquire state-run corporations. The Burmese Government has said if a privatization law is enacted, state-run corporations will be able to establish joint companies with foreign firms in various industries, and foreign firms will be able to have capital stakes in state-run corporations. The country has already enacted a foreign investment law and a domestic investment law. However, it has not had a comprehensive law on joint ventures in Burma. The Keidanren mission also met with Khin Nyunt, first secretary of the State Law and Order Restoration Council (SLORC). In the meeting, Nyun called on Japan to actively invest in Burma's agricultural and forestry industries, and in programs to exploit natural resources. He also asked Japanese companies to bear the costs for constructing hotels for the sake of Burma's tourist development. In response, Haruna first stressed the need for Burma to further promote democratization, and said: "Although the Japanese Government's Official Development Assistance (ODA) to Burma has virtually been suspended (except for humanitarian purposes), the private sector will work to promote economic cooperation, while observing developments in your country."
