FBIS4-4739 "dreas065_a_94013" FBIS-EAS-94-065 Daily Report 5 Apr 1994 NORTHEAST ASIA Japan Previews Organization's Jun Meeting Previews Organization's Jun Meeting OW0504122294 Tokyo KYODO in English 1138 GMT 5 Apr 94 OW0504122294 Tokyo KYODO English BFN [Text] Tokyo, April 5 KYODO -- The OECD is likely to revise slightly upward the economic growth it forecast for the Group of Seven (G-7) industrialized economies for 1994, the Paris-based organization's Secretary General Jean-Claude Paye said Tuesday [5 April]. "The U.S. economic recovery is stronger than expected, there is the first sign of recovery in Europe and the very beginning of the first sign in Japan," Paye said. In its economic outlook issued in December, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development forecast a 2.1 percent growth for member nations, with a 0.5 percent growth for Japan. The organization is expected to issue a new outlook in June. Paye, currently on a regular visit to Tokyo to discuss the OECD's annual ministerial meeting in June with Japanese leaders, mentioned the possible upward revision at a press conference at the Japan National Press Club. Regarding the agenda of June's meeting, Paye said the focus will be on the problem of unemployment among member nations, the future of world trading following the conclusion of the Uruguay Round of trade talks, and OECD relations with nonmember nations. The main cause of the current unemployment problem is, Paye said, "the gap which exists between the need for adjusting our economy and ability or willingness to adjust." He said the OECD nations need to tackle this problem through a macroeconomic approach and by revising structural policy, leading to a more flexible economy and a more skillful work force. As for global trading following the conclusion of the Uruguay Round of talks, Paye pointed out the importance of balancing trade and protecting the environment. In this respect, he stressed the necessity of creating international rules to prevent protectionist moves using environmental concerns as excuses. Paye said the OECD has expanded its relations with nonmember nations in line with the rapidly changing global situation. As part of that, the organization will welcome Mexico as its first new member in 21 years at the forthcoming ministerial meeting, bringing the number of its member states to 25.
