FBIS3-2409 "drchi046_v_94002" FBIS-CHI-94-046 Document Type:Daily Report 9 Mar 1994 TAIWAN Defense Ministry White Paper Details Threats to Taipei OW0903081594 Taipei CNA in English 0730 GMT 9 Mar 94 OW0903081594 Taipei CNA Language: English Article Type:BFN [By Debbie Kuo] [Text] Taipei, March 9 (CNA) -- A recently-completed Ministry of National Defense (MND) white paper on Taiwan security issues concluded that Beijing remains Taiwan's top security threat and would be most likely to attack if the island declares independence. The soon-to-be released white paper discussed events which would provoke a mainland attack and detailed possible military tactics Beijing would use against Taiwan. The paper also listed the six most likely ways Beijing would attack Taiwan with an airstrike across the Taiwan Strait topping the list. Communist forces might opt for a sudden missile attack against targets on Taiwan's west coast, the paper said, or seize the pretext of fishing disputes to confront Taiwan's navy. The MND said that Beijing may prefer to lure Taiwan air and sea forces into battle after first attacking Taiwan-held islands or supply vessels plying the Taiwan Strait. Another tactic would be a rapid invasion and takeover of Taiwan-held islands using a small combat force, the paper noted. And rounding out the list would be a conventional, full-scale assault on Taiwan using a combination of strategies and forces. The white paper said that Taiwan faces an increased threat from Beijing since the Communists have stepped up the pace of their military buildup. Sources from Beijing confirmed recently that Beijing's defense budget will increase 20 percent this year to top 50 billion renminbi (US$5.75 billion). The paper also noted that Taiwan is facing increased security threats from other Asia-Pacific nations, especially over disputes concerning the sovereignty of the Spratly Islands. Defense Minister Sun Chen said Tuesday [8 March] that a 10-year plan, launched this fiscal year, will upgrade the efficiency of the military in both hardware and software buildup while cutting the number of personnel. The white paper was the second of its kind. The MND published the first edition in February, 1992.
