FBIS3-42525 "jpusp001___94025" JPRS-USP-94-001 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Central Eurasia: Space 16 February 1994 SPACE APPLICATIONS Combined Use of Onboard Standards and Reference Areas of the Ocean Surface for Calibrating Satellite-Based Microwave Radiometer Measurements 937Q0058C Moscow ISSLEDOVANIYE ZEMLI IZ KOSMOSA in Russian No 5, Sep-Oct 93 pp 57-65 937Q0058C Moscow ISSLEDOVANIYE ZEMLI IZ KOSMOSA Language: Russian Article Type:CSO [Article by B. Z. Petrenko, Institute of Radio Engineering and Electronics, Russian Academy of Sciences, Moscow; UDC 528.852.4] [Abstract] Reliable absolute calibration of microwave radiometers is critical to the solution of inverse problems of satellite-based passive microwave sensing. Two techniques are used for absolute calibration -- onboard calibration (which uses radiation either from manmade sources or from natural sources unrelated to the target being sensed, or both) and external calibration (which uses contrast areas of the Earth's surface). The sources in the first technique are called standards; those in the second technique, references. Since both techniques have merits and drawbacks, the researchers chose to combine their use in a technique based on precise knowledge of equivalent brightness temperatures of the standards and geophysical parameters of the reference areas. In the context of the estimation of accuracy associated with the determination of ocean-surface temperature and total water vapor mass in the atmosphere, they demonstrated that the new technique makes it possible to relax the requirements associated with onboard standards in achieving acceptable accuracy in determination of geophysical parameters. With external calibration based on reference areas alone, estimates of calibration factors were stabilized. When onboard standards were highly accurate, their use made it possible to raise the precision associated with the determination of absolute values of geophysical parameters. Figures 6, references 12: 10 Russian, 2 Western.
