FBIS3-35295 "drnes036_n_94006" FBIS-NES-94-036 Document Type:Daily Report 23 Feb 1994 LEBANON Mirhij on Israel's Intentions, Resistance NC1902133094 (Clandestine) Radio Free Lebanon in Arabic 1145 GMT 19 Feb 94 NC1902133094 (Clandestine) Radio Free Lebanon Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Excerpts] Interior Minister Bisharah Mirhij has affirmed that resistance is a result of the occupation. Lebanon has not violated the rules of the game, he said. The interior minister denied that Katuysha rockets were fired at northern Israel. This might have happened and might not, he retorted. He wondered why Israel is not brought to account for firing shells at south Lebanon. In an interview on Radio Free Lebanon's "Responsible Talk" program, Mirhij said that Israel is trying to put pressure on the Lebanese people and state to adjust Lebanon's political stand to Israel's interests. We support any action our people undertake in support of the resistance on their land, he said; adding: This is a natural right. Asked if it is likely that Israel will launch a large-scale military operation in Lebanon, Mirhij said: Everything is possible. We are preparing for all possibilities. So far, signs coming from Israel's direction are certainly not peaceful, he said. The interior minister added: We insist on having understanding and coordination with Syria. We will not deviate from that course, because it enables Lebanon to adopt the right attitude. Mirhij believes that Israel was not comfortable with the Geneva summit because it emphasized Syria's regional power. [passage omitted] Asked if it will be possible to guarantee the necessary security for the Pope's visit, Mirhij said: If we were not capable of doing that we would not have taken the initiative. [passage omitted] Asked about Palestinians in Lebanon, Mirhij affirmed that they have rights as Arab subjects living on Lebanese territory against their will. Until they return to their homeland, they will be treated as brothers and Arabs, he said. [passage omitted]
