FBIS4-14406 "drsov062_a_94009" FBIS-SOV-94-062 Daily Report 31 Mar 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Lobov Holds Talks With U.S. Officials Lobov Holds Talks With U.S. Officials LD3103094894 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service in Russian 0140 GMT 31 Mar 94 LD3103094894 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service Russian BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Pavel Vanichkin] [Text] Washington, 31 Mar -- In a talk with an ITAR-TASS correspondent, Oleb Lobov, secretary of the Russian Security Council, who is on a visit to the United States, described his meetings on Wednesday with high-ranking representatives of the American administration as frank and constructive. The main focus of attention at the meeting with Nicholas Burns, special assistant to the U.S. President for affairs of Russia, Ukraine, and Eurasia, was paid to getting to know the work of the National Security Council's Russian department, which he heads, Lobov noted. We came to the conclusion that there is a need to establish permanent contacts and to reach agreement, and that Burns should pay a visit to Moscow in the future. We also handed the American side a draft memorandum on cooperation between the U.S. National Security Council and the Russian Security Council. The document establishes the machinery of cooperation and stipulates the periodicity of meetings and the field of questions to be discussed. Such questions should include topical international problems, peacemaking activities, and coordination of policy toward various countries and regions. We then had a meeting with James Collins, ambassador at large for the new independent states, Lobov continued. We talked mainly about the prospects for cooperation between Russian analysts and American experts on Russia and other countries of the CIS working in the State Department, which should be aimed at joint study of the situation in Russia and other countries, and also the drafting of proposals for political leaders. At a meeting with David Binney, acting director of the FBI, what interested us most were questions of combating organized crime, Lobov noted. Russia and the United States could expand cooperation in combating organized crime, the drug barons, economic crimes connected with evasion of taxes and customs duties, and illegal exportation of goods. I think such cooperation will be of benefit to both countries.
