FBIS4-45592 "jptdd028__l94092" JPRS-TDD-94-028-L JPRS Narcotics 4 June 1994 WEST EUROPE UNITED KINGDOM Teachers Launch `Crusade' To `Stamp Out' Drug Usage by Teachers Launch `Crusade' To `Stamp Out' Drug Usage by Children 94WD0428 London THE TIMES in English 4 Jun 94 p 6--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 94WD0428 London THE TIMES English CSO [Article by John O'Leary: "Heads Tell of Drug Pushers Aged Eight"] [Text] Head teachers launched a crusade yesterday to stamp out the growing menace of drugs in the playground. Children, some only eight years old, had been suspended for pushing drugs, the National Association of Head Teachers' conference was told. Delegates in Eastbourne called for government action to warn the young about the dangers of drugs. Martin Saunders, headmaster of a Stoke-on-Trent primary school, said that half the city's secondary schools had suspended pupils for drugs offences. He said children could buy cannabis for £15 to £20, heroin for £5 to £10, a tab of Ecstasy for £12 and "speed" for £5. "It is cheaper than getting drunk. For many young people who go out at the weekend, drug-taking is as common as having a drink." Derek Gray, another head teacher in Stoke, said schools were reluctant to admit they had a drug problem. Mr Gray told of a boy who started sniffing lighter fuel at the age of 11, before turning to hard drugs. He died, aged 19, of a heart infection. At the conference, David Hart, the general secretary, called for 22,000 extra teachers to be employed to halt the increase in class sizes and to implement changes in the national curriculum. Almost a quarter of pupils were now in classes of more than 30, he said. He criticised the National Union of Teachers for its boycott of national testing. - A study of East Yorkshire has discovered that children in the countryside are using drugs produced for pigs and some are experimenting with a sedative given to animals with mad cow disease. One Lincolnshire addict said the drugs "are more available than street illegal drugs." TIMES NEWSPAPERS LIMITED, 1994
