FBIS4-11636 "drnes062_n_94001" FBIS-NES-94-062 Daily Report 30 Mar 1994 LEBANON 23 Arrested in Plots To Kill Peace Negotiators 23 Arrested in Plots To Kill Peace Negotiators NC3003145294 Paris AFP in English 1341 GMT 30 Mar 94 NC3003145294 Paris AFP English BFN [Text] Amman, March 30 (AFP) -- The authorities are holding 23 Jordanian Islamic militants suspected of trying to kill Jordanian and Palestinian leaders involved in peace talks with Israel, a legal official said here Wednesday. The 23, all veterans of the Afghanistan war, were believed to have plotted to kill Jordanian Prime Minister 'Abd-al-Salam al-Majali and Palestinian peace negotiators Faysal al-Husayni and Hanan 'Ashrawi last year, according to charges being drawn up against them. The militants, already detained for more than one month, were also suspected of involvement in a series of bomb blasts in Jordan in January and February. The official said the militants plotted to kill al-Majali during an interview, with one of the group posing as a journalist. However, the interview was postponed. Al-Majali was leading Jordan's delegation to the bilateral peace talks with Israel at the time. The Arab-Israeli talks were suspended after the February 25 Hebron massacre. The militants also planned to kill al-Husayni and 'Ashrawi when the Palestinian leaders made one of their regular trips to Amman, the official said. Bombs were to be planted in their hotel rooms with the connivance of a hotel employee, but the plot failed due to the secrecy surrounding the Palestinian leaders' movements. The official said the militants were expected to stand trial at the end of April. The group's aim was to "torpedo the peace process and get alcoholic drinks, bars and cinemas outlawed," the official explained. On February 6 the authorities said they had arrested two Islamic militants implicated in the bombings of two cinemas in Jordan on January 26 and February 1 which injured a total of nine people. The two had reportedly fought in Afghanistan. Interior Minister Salamah Hammad said a group of militants had been rounded up for planning attacks against the Jordanian parliament and leading political figures. Nearly 400 Jordanians and Palestinians have returned to Jordan over the past year after undergoing military training with the Afghan Mujahedin.
