FBIS3-46287 "drchi018_v_94005" FBIS-CHI-94-018 Document Type:Daily Report 27 Jan 1994 TAIWAN Premier To Meet Latin American Officials in Honduras OW2401093394 Taipei CNA in English 0832 GMT 24 Jan 94 OW2401093394 Taipei CNA Language: English Article Type:BFN [By Bear Li] [Text] Taipei, Jan. 24 (CNA) -- Premier Lien Chan will meet the heads of state of five Central and South American countries during his trip to Honduras, according to sources with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Lien, in his capacity as special envoy to President Li Teng-hui, is leaving Monday [24 January] afternoon for Tegucigalpa to attend the inauguration of Honduran President Carlos Roberto Reina. Lien will call on outgoing Honduran President Leonardo Callejas soon after his arrival at the Honduran capital Wednesday and then attend a dinner party hosted by President Callejas. Foreign Ministry officials said that during his trip Lien will meet with the heads of state from Guatemala, Nicaragua, El Salvador, Panama and Colombia, and the deputy heads of state from Costa Rica and the Dominican Republic as well as the prime minister of Belize who are all expected to attend the presidential inauguration. In addition, the officials said that the Republic of China [ROC] embassy in Tegucigalpa is arranging for formal meetings between Premier Lien and the leaders of those countries. They said that although there have been no disputes between Taiwan and those countries, Lien's meetings with the leaders will still be conducive to enhancing bilateral ties. Diplomatic sources here also attached much importance to Lien's trip as Beijing has recently launched a series of diplomatic offensives in Central and South America, which traditionally are Taiwan diplomatic strongholds. Lien and his delegation will also visit Miami and San Francisco before returning home Feb. 1. Lien's delegation includes Vice Foreign Minister Fang Chin-yen, Vice Economics Minister Yang Shih-chien and Government Information Office Director-General Jason Hu.
