FBIS4-23544 "drafr111_c_94008" FBIS-AFR-94-111 Daily Report 9 Jun 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA South African Press Review for 9 June South African Press Review for 9 June MB0906131794 MB0906131794 BFN [Editorial Report] THE STAR Truth Commission -- "The move by Justice Minister Dullah Omar to establish a Commission of Truth and Reconciliation is welcome, with one major reservation. The commission must -- if it is 'to enable South Africa to come to terms with its past' -- be evenhanded," begins the Johannesburg THE STAR in English on 9 June in a page 12 editorial. "A truth commission will fail if it seeks to extracts confessions from only one side as a prerequisite for indemnity." "State officials who committed atrocities against anti-apartheid activists should not be allowed to apply for and be granted indemnity in secrecy ....but, by the same token, so must the killers, bombers and torturers in ANC ranks be fully exposed and forced to acknowledge their role in the abuse of human rights." "There are auspicious signs, too, that Omar will reject the sweeping definition of a political offence in the Further Indemnity Act. The definition must not allow people motivated by racial bigotry and blood-lust to escape punishment by labelling their actions 'political'. Too wide a definition will stain the book." SOWETAN Truth Commission -- "Proposals to deal with any country's secret security operations pose major moral, practical and philosophical problems, particularly to new governments," begins the Johannesburg SOWETAN in English on 9 June in a page 8 editorial. Plans to create a truth commission "is sure to be welcomed but will also raise many questions. It is necessary for reconciliation for crimes against the people to be made public, but the problem arises as to the process after these revelations." "It would seem rather unfortunate that men who committed the most heinous acts on helpless victims of a political situation should be allowed to get off so easily." CITIZEN Truth Commission -- "As we feared and warned against, the government is going to set up a Truth and Reconciliation Commission," states the Johannesburg THE CITIZEN in English on 8 June in a page 6 editorial. "We think the Truth Commission will be an inquisitorial body to 'smell out' those who allegedly committed atrocities and force them to make public penance for their deeds (unless, of course they volunteer to disclose their crimes and seek forgiveness). How this brings about reconciliation is beyond us. Eighteen months to two years of this kind of inquisition will keep all the hatreds alive, instead of helping to reconcile differences and bring about an end to the bitterness of the past." "It is also clear from Mr. Omar's remarks that atrocities committed by the ANC during its armed struggle will not require accounting before the Truth Commission, but the offences of those who killed ANC members or subjected them to 'dirty tricks' will be." If the government is not evenhanded, then the commission will be seen as an ANC "vendetta." Government Urged To Trust De Klerk -- "Deputy President De Klerk must wondering why his major partner in the government has taken to querying decisions he made while he was State President," states an editorial on page 6 of the 7 June edition of THE CITIZEN. The first queried decision was the deal with Mangosuthu Buthelezi that transferred land to Zulu King Zwelithini. Most recently, De Klerk's judgment was questioned when it was disclosed that he granted indemnity to security force operatives. "What is most disturbing," concludes THE CITIZEN, "is the fact that Mr De Klerk's bona fides are brought into question. If the ANC trusts him, why call him to account for decisions he validly took while State President? Put another way, how can there be a government of national unity when there is disunity over such issues?"
