FBIS4-46207 "jptot022__l94084" JPRS-TOT-94-022-L JPRS Terrorism FOUO 20 May 1994 CENTRAL EURASIA MOLDOVA Officer Claims `Criminals' Arriving in Dniester Officer Claims `Criminals' Arriving in Dniester AU2305184594 Chisinau BASAPRESS in English 1853 GMT 20 May 94 AU2305184594 Chisinau BASAPRESS English BFN [Text] Chisinau, BASAPRESS, 20/5/1994 -- A group of terrorists from Vilnius came to Dniester, at the invitation of Vadim Shevtsov (Antiufeev), chairman of the Dniester Security Committee, stated Col. Mikhail Bergman of the 14th Army to Asket TV in Tiraspol and retranslated by the "Teleradio-Moldova" state company. According to Bergman, "through Dniestrian security's help and support, criminals who conceal their real name are coming into the region." Thus, a certain Gudyma who came recently from Moscow at the security minister's invitation had a passport indicating two years' Dniester citizenship. Bergman also pointed out that Tiraspol officials illegally issued 900 permits for weapons to ministers and company managers. Among those who receive the permits were Galina Andreyeva, an OSTK [expression unknown] leader, Anatoli Bolshakov, Vladimir Vorobiov, managers of large industrial enterprises, Aleksey Tokarev, manager of an Austrian joint firm and currently an Austrian citizen, etc. Col. Bergman mentioned that over 24 carbines were stolen from 14th Army weapon storage during the Dniester conflict. Ten of these carbines were bought by the prosecutor general, Boris Luchik, Tiraspol leader Igor Smirnov, Vadim Shevtsov (Antiufeev) and Belusov, respectively chairman and deputy chairman of the Security Committee, Aleksandr Karaman, Dniester vice president and other Tiraspol officials. The guns were simply given to them as gifts for which they would later receive special permits, added Bergman. According to him, Aleksandr Karaman possesses six guns. Bergman said that Smirnov opened in Austria an account for $5 million and during a recent visit in this country he withdrew $1.5 million. He also said that Smirnov is building a villa on the "Uzbekistan" sanatorium's property in Yalta, Crimea, using construction materials from Dniester.
