FBIS3-23705 "jpusr019___94026" FBIS-USR-94-019 Document Type:JPRS Document Title: FBIS Report: Central Eurasia 2 March 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Davydov Reviews World Economic Forum 944Q0181B Moscow KOMMERSANT-DAILY in Russian 4 Feb 94 p 4 944Q0181B Moscow KOMMERSANT-DAILY Language: Russian Article Type:CSO [Article by Svetlana Sukova: "Russian Delegation at Davos Forum: Forum Calls for Easing of Reforms"] [Text] After returning to Moscow late Tuesday evening, Russian Minister of Foreign Economic Relations Oleg Davydov commented on the results of the World Economic Forum held in Davos (see KOMMERSANT-DAILY for February 2) for a KOMMERSANT-DAILY correspondent. In Mr. Davydov's opinion, most noteworthy was the attention that Western politicians and businessmen devoted to the idea of adjustments in Russian reforms: The need to "humanize" them was brought up in Davos repeatedly. There were also promises to help Russia solve its social problems, to grant its credits, and to establish socially oriented funds for this purpose. The forum's participants stressed the importance of continued reform, saying that the pace of the process is not that important. Mr. Davydov noted that the forum's participants basically discussed issues of reform theory on the first day. After very lengthy discussions and attempts to arrive at the best definition for the concept of "reform," they arrived at a common view: Economic reform has at least three essential components: liberalization of prices and foreign trade, privatization, and efforts to combat inflation. But Mr. Davydov saw nothing fundamentally new in the Western experts' discussion of economic reforms in Russia. Much more interesting, in his opinion, was the attention devoted at the forum to the social factor of reforms. Most of the speakers called attention to the fact that the changes under way in Russia are psychologically and physically difficult for the majority of the population. The conclusion was that it is essential to ease reform time tables and methods. There were also proposals for earmarking several special Western funds and credits for social programs. Mr. Davydov said that such Western steps are attributable primarily to the West's fear of the "Zhirinovskiy factor." It was said repeatedly at the forum that this factor "will manifest itself increasingly distinctly as the social situation of Russian citizens worsens" and that a return "back onto the road of democracy will be far more costly." And so the impatience and interest with which the participants awaited the Russian prime minister's speech was not surprising. In the minister's opinion, Viktor Chernomyrdin succeeded in reassuring his audience. But particular attention was paid not to his statements about continuing and deepening reforms, but to the prime minister's support for the idea of a tough state financial policy to control inflation.
