FBIS4-32220 "dreeu120_i_94004" FBIS-EEU-94-120 Daily Report 21 Jun 1994 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA UN Spokesman on Blocking of Aid Convoys UN Spokesman on Blocking of Aid Convoys AU2106153794 Paris AFP in English 1514 GMT 21 Jun 94 AU2106153794 Paris AFP English BFN [Text] Sarajevo, June 21 (AFP) -- Bosnian Serb authorities blocked humanitarian and UN convoys from entering Sarajevo last weekend in retaliation for the Bosnian Army's offensive in the northeastern part of the country, a UN spokesman said Tuesday [21 June]. Major Rob Annink, spokesman for the UN Protection Force (UNPROFOR) said all Serb checkpoints into Sarajevo, especially those leading to central Bosnia, were shut down from Friday to Monday. He said the measure did not completely isolate the Bosnian capital as the UN can fly in supplies and convoys have been using a mountain route that leads to the city since March. But Annink added that the Serb move was deemed serious enough for Lieutenant General Sir Michael Rose, the commander of UN troops in Bosnia, to take up the matter Tuesday with the special UN envoy to ex-Yugoslavia Yasushi Akashi. Rose has also called for a high-level meeting between Bosnia's Serbs and Moslems Saturday to try and shore up an uneasy 11-day-old ceasefire that is showing signs of fraying. The Serbs and Moslems have been locked in heavy fighting for five days near northeastern Mount Ozren which overlooks the region of Doboj, Ribnica and Gradaca. Annink said UN observers deployed in the region have set up a radar to pinpoint the origin of the shelling. He said the UN had registered a threefold increase in ceasefire violations in and around Sarajevo in the last 24 hours, with one Bosnian Army soldier reported dead. Meanwhile General Andre Soubirou, the commander of UN troops in Sarajevo, told reporters Tuesday that Serb troops were probably responsible for sniper shots over the weekend that left one person dead and three others injured in the capital. He said the shooting was apparently a reminder by the Serbs that despite a ceasefire imposed on the capital in February under the threat of a NATO strike, they still could control the city.
