FBIS4-45016 "jpnea031___94024" JPRS-NEA-94-031 JPRS Near East & South Asia 10 May 1994 SOUTH ASIA INDIA Government Reiterates Stand on Tibet Government Reiterates Stand on Tibet 94AS0286G Madras THE HINDU in English 10 May 94 p 15 94AS0286G Madras THE HINDU English CSO [Text] New Delhi, May 9. Mr. Salman Kurshid, Minister of State for External Affairs, said the Government was in no way associated with the meeting on Tibet held here by some parliamentarians from March 18-20. The Government's position was that Tibet is an autonomous region of China. Under Indian laws, individuals had the right to express their opinion freely. It was the Government's hope that non-official activities of certain individuals would not affect the ongoing process of improvement of Sino-Indian relations. This position had been conveyed to the Chinese Government, he said in a written reply, during question hour in the Lok Sabha. Friendly Ties with Dhaka India is committed to the maintenance of friendly and cooperative relations with Bangladesh. The dialogue with that country to resolve outstanding issues as also India's endeavors to consolidate bilateral cooperation would continue, Mr. Kurshid said. The major bilateral issues to be resolved with Bangladesh included sharing of waters of the common rivers, early completion of the repatriation of Chakma refugees, illegal immigration from Bangladesh, insurgency-related developments and further expansion of cultural, commercial and economic cooperation. The Government had made an offer to several heads of missions accredited to India to facilitate a visit to Jammu and Kashmir. These included ambassadors from Islamic and other countries. In pursuance of this, since February, 1994 three groups of envoys, including heads of missions from some Islamic countries, have visited Jammu and Kashmir. The Government arranged the logistics. A programme of briefings and visits was arranged in consultation with the State authorities. The heads of missions utilised the visit to meet a wide section of people in the State, Mr. Khurshid said. Pak. Propaganda Countered Pakistan was carrying out an extensive propaganda on Kashmir in the U.S. with the help of anti-India elements. Adequate resources had been provided to the Indian Embassy and consulates to counter such propaganda, he said. The Government had also engaged the services of a lobbying firm in the U.S. to supplement the efforts of the Indian missions. The Government was apprising other governments of Pakistan's sponsorship of terrorism. The Government had seen reports about a sizable number of highly trained and well-armed foreign mercenaries, including Afghan nationals, infiltrating into the State with the covert support of Pakistan and who were indulging in acts of subversion and terrorism. According to reports, a few thousand such mercenaries are still in Pakistan. The Government was maintaining constant vigil and taking all measures to combat terrorism and to safeguard, at all costs, the unity and territorial integrity of the nation, Mr. Khurshid said. -- UNI
