FBIS4-30300 "dreas123_c_94019" FBIS-EAS-94-123 Daily Report 24 Jun 1994 North Korea Envoy: Russian Nuclear Reporting Said `Distorted' Envoy: Russian Nuclear Reporting Said `Distorted' SK2406134394 Pyongyang Korean Central Broadcasting Network in Korean 1100 GMT 24 Jun 94 SK2406134394 Pyongyang Korean Central Broadcasting Network in Korean 1100 GMT 24 Jun 94 Korean BFN [Text] A hearing on the nuclear issue on the Korean peninsula was held at a meeting of the International Affairs Committee of the Russian State Duma on 20 June. Participating in the hearing were Vladimir Lukin, chairman of International Affairs Committee of the Russian State Duma; deputies to the State Duma who are members of the committee; Mikhail Titarenko, director of the Russian Academy of Sciences Far East Institute; functionaries of relevant sectors; and functionaries of the publication and reporting sector. Son Song-pil, DPRK ambassador to Russia, and functionaries of the embassy were invited to the meeting. The DPRK ambassador spoke first at the hearing, which was headed by the chairman of the Russian State Duma International Affairs Committee. He said that reports in Russian publications on the nuclear issue on the Korean peninsula were mostly distorted and showed sympathy with the U.S. and other Western countries' reports. He explained the origin of the nuclear issue on the Korean peninsula and our Republic's consistent position and efforts to resolve it. Ambassador Son Song-pil answered questions by the State Duma deputies and those concerned in Korean affairs. Answering the question related to Russia's proposal for an international meeting on the nuclear issue on the Korean peninsula, he said: We admitted that if the international meeting proposed by Russia is held on the principle of equality and impartiality, if the DPRK-U.S. talks broke down, it can be a way to resolve the nuclear issue peacefully, aadding that we would study it if a specific plan is put forward. However, we cannot approve of it if you urge us to hold an international meeting while sanctions are imposed on us. Dialogue and sanctions are incompatible. We will take appropriate countermeasures against sanctions according to their scale. Our position is to respond to dialogue with dialogue and to war with war.
