FBIS3-42454 "jpuma006___94019" JPRS-UMA-94-006 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Central Eurasia Military Affairs Military Herald No 10, 1993 10 February 1994 KSZ Combat Engineer Protective Clothing Set 94UM0165R Moscow VOYENNYY VESTNIK in Russian No 10, Oct 93 Special Edition (signed to press 20 Aug 93) p 50 94UM0165R Moscow VOYENNYY VESTNIK Language: Russian Article Type:CSO [Article by Colonel P. Olenin and Lieutenant-Colonel N. Salamakhin] [Text] The protective clothing set is designed to protect the combat engineer from injury by the explosion of antipersonnel mines when conducting reconnaissance and clearing an area of landmines by hand. The kit enables the combat engineer to search for and destroy (disarm) antipersonnel mines. The KSZ includes a jacket with a cushioning climate layer, trousers, a hood, a visor, shoe covers, and a respirator. The jacket, trousers, hood, and shoe covers are made of a large number of layers of ballistic fabric. A differentiated change in the protective properties of the clothing is ensured by using removable metal armor elements with varied levels of strength. The protective clothing is recommended for use, depending on the conditions of the task being carried out, as a full set or without individual components, with additional reinforcement or without reinforcement. Three basic variants are formed: The base variant for protection against small fragments; a reinforced variant for protection against small fragments; and a bulletproof variant for protection against directional mines. The design features of the clothing make it possible to be used in a temperature range of -35 to +35 degrees C and to fire small arms. Basic Specifications of the Protective Clothing Set Protective properties of the base variant: --against explosion of high-explosive antipersonnel mines to a distance of 1 meter; --against bullets from a Makarov pistol from a distance of 10 meters. Protective properties of the base variant with additional armored protection: --against explosion of POMZ-2 fragmentation-type antipersonnel mines at a distance of 2 meters; --against explosion of MON-50 fragmentation-type antipersonnel mines at a distance of 15 meters; --against bullets from Kalashnikov 7.62-mm and 5.45-mm assault rifles from a distance of 15 meters.
