FBIS4-57627 "drlat099_j_94005" FBIS-LAT-94-099 Daily Report 21 May 1994 Panama Perez Balladares, Costa Rican President Meet Perez Balladares, Costa Rican President Meet PA2205122494 Panama City EL PANAMA AMERICA in Spanish 21 May 94 p A1 PA2205122494 Panama City EL PANAMA AMERICA Spanish BFN [Report by Arnulfo Barroso Watson] [Text] Costa Rican President Jose Maria Figueres and Panamanian President-elect Ernesto Perez Balladares met yesterday in San Jose and agreed to join efforts during their respective administrations to fight drug trafficking and to adopt measures to improve their commercial relations. Perez Balladares traveled to Costa Rica with Foreign Minister-designate Gabriel Lewis Galindo on an invitation by fellow Social Democrat Jose Maria Figueres, with whom he met for about one and one-half hours. In a news conference at the Costa Rican Presidential Palace, Figueres and Perez Balladares said they talked about four specific issues: bilateral trade, social investments at the common border, creation of a mixed-bilateral commercial association, and the struggle against drug trafficking. Both presidents agreed the sovereignty of their respective nations is violated when they are used by drug traffickers for their illicit trade. "We agreed to carry out efforts, in a decisive and definitive manner, to control drug smuggling as a mutual responsibility," Figueres stated. Meanwhile, Perez Balladares said the issue of drug trafficking is fundamental. He affirmed that the struggle against drug trafficking may result in the creation of liaison and joint cooperation offices, not only with the United States, but also with all countries that feel the need to cooperate in this matter. Figueres' National Liberation Party and Perez Balladares' PRD [Democratic Revolutionary Party] assisted each other during the elections in their respective nations. Both presidents were classmates at the University of Notre Dame in the United States. The presidents expressed their interest in building a permanent commission formed by the two countries' governments and private enterprise to promote economic, social, and commercial development along the Costa Rican-Panamanian border.
