FBIS4-21146 "jptdd016__l94025" JPRS-TDD-94-016-L JPRS Narcotics Reaction to the 1994 U.S. State Department International Narcotics Control Strategy Report 9 April 1994 LATIN AMERICA PANAMA Column Says U.S. Charges `Lack Details,' Calls on U.S. To Column Says U.S. Charges `Lack Details,' Calls on U.S. To `Set An Example' PA1004211194 Panama City EL SIGLO in Spanish 9 Apr 94 p 4 PA1004211194 Panama City EL SIGLO Spanish BFN [From the "Forum" column] [Text] U.S. authorities have been accusing our country of being a center for regular and abundant drug-related money laundering. They have done this without, in any instance, giving specific details regarding the persons, place, and time the actions have taken place. In addition, they have done it indirectly, without denoting the attitude of a serious government such as that of the United States, a country seeking to end that illegal business. The U.S. accusations indicate a rather obvious intention to tarnish the country so as to free itself partly of the social stigma of currently being the largest drug consumer worldwide. If instead of trying to raise "doubts" regarding the reputation not only of our country, but also of other nations on the continent, Washington tried to outline joint strategies to solve this serious problem, then the sincere will of the U.S. Administration to stop the illegal business of those who come to our countries to "clean up" would become evident. [sentence as published] Then those countries, and their governments, including Panama, would have a greater chance to succeed in this fight against the negative forces of the U.S.-fed thriving and powerful drug enterprise. These countries south of the Rio Grande could never generate so much money because they do not have it; and if they had it, they would use it to satiate the overwhelming hunger of their peoples and not to use and abuse cocaine, marijuana, and their many byproducts. In this serious war, Washington should be the one to set an example for the other participants.
