FBIS4-22202 "jpuma015___94021" JPRS-UMA-94-015 JPRS Central Eurasia Military Affairs 31 March 1994 STATE AND LOCAL MILITARY FORCES UKRAINE Ministry of Defense Officials Observe Air Force Training Ministry of Defense Officials Observe Air Force Training Radetskyy, Air Force Leadership at Vinnytsya 94UM0345A Kiev NARODNA ARMIYA in Ukrainian 31 Mar 94 p 1 94UM0345A Kiev NARODNA ARMIYA Ukrainian CSO [Press Service of the Ministry of Defense of Ukraine: "Minister of Defense at Air Force Training"] [Text] As we reported earlier, Air Force command staff training is continuing in accordance with the plan for combat training of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Defense Minister General of the Army Vitaliy Radetskyy visited the headquarters of the Air Force of Ukraine in Vinnytsya. As the person ultimately in charge of training, the minister heard reports from Lt. Gen. Volodymyr Antonets, the commander of the Air Force, Maj. Gen. Yuriy Petrov, chief of staff of the Air Force, and the chiefs of directorates and services and set them the task of working out how the country's Air Force will be used in strategic defense operations by the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Vitaliy Radetskyy stressed the need for more thoroughly working out the combat missions in such training exercises, because they offer an opportunity for commanders at all levels to attain theoretical and practical skills in leading troops. The chief of Ukraine's War Office visited the helicopter regiment stationed in Vinnytsya. Here, Vitaliy Radetskyy acquainted himself with the everyday life of personnel and the conditions in which the helicopter troops carry out their military duty. It was evident that the members of this unit and their families are experiencing considerable social and everyday hardships. Despite these difficulties, the aviators are executing the tasks they have been assigned. This was confirmed by the efficient performance of the pair on duty: On the defense minister's command, the helicopters rose into the air, significantly exceeding the accepted standard. The main subject discussed during the meeting of the defense minister with the regiment personnel was the need to focus attention on the problems of the army and to begin solving them as quickly as possible.
