FBIS3-15973 "drsov048_a_94021" FBIS-SOV-94-048 Document Type:Daily Report 11 Mar 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Agreement Reached With Ukraine on Gas Debt Problem LD1003202594 Moscow Nezavisimoye Televideniye Television in Russian 1600 GMT 10 Mar 94 LD1003202594 Moscow Nezavisimoye Televideniye Television Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Text] Today Russia and Ukraine resolved the conflict which has arisen because of Ukraine's gas debts and the delivery of Russian gas to Ukraine. Our team has only just returned from filming. [Correspondent Zrelin] Throughout the whole of today difficult talks were held in Moscow in the Gazprom building. Even journalists invited to a news conference in the afternoon had to wait 90 more minutes. While cameras were being set up in the hall, the two sides were still defining their positions in the final document. So, Russia and Ukraine have agreed on the joint utilization of the gas piplelines passing through Ukrainian territory and also the storage tanks for the natural fuel, with the subsequent sale of shares in them. It has been decided to introduce order into the debts issue within a month, that is by 10 April, and also to agree on the percentage of ownership of the gas pipelines and the storage tanks. [Ukraine Vice Premier V.I. Landik] This year we will pay for gas only in money -- either rubles or hard currency -- but as for the 1993 debts here it will be 50-50; that is we will supply equipment and materials to Gazprom to cover 50 percent, and 50 percent will be paid in money, either rubles or hard currency. [Zrelin] Moscow and Kiev have also decided to toughen up the procedure for supplying fuel to consumers. This means that enterprises in Ukraine will receive gas only if they pay in advance. If there is no prepayment then there will be no gas. [R.I. Vryakhirev, chairman of the board of Gazprom] If we do not introduce order together, I mean by 10 April, then gas supplies to Ukrainian consumers will be completely halted. [Zrelin] It was also decided to in no way reduce export supplies since European consumers have already demanded large forfeits from Russia for non-fulfillment of contracts. Ukraine has also promised to no longer take gas from export pipes. Aleksandr Zrelin, Nikolay Grigorin, NTV, Moscow.
