FBIS3-6114 "dreas050_c_94015" FBIS-EAS-94-050 Document Type:Daily Report 15 Mar 1994 North Korea Daily Warns Japan To `Act Prudently'; Cites Hata SK1503044694 Pyongyang KCNA in English 0430 GMT 15 Mar 94 SK1503044694 Pyongyang KCNA Language: English Article Type:BFN ["Japan Warned Not To Impede Denuclearization of Korean Peninsula" -- KCNA headline] [Text] Pyongyang, March 15 (KCNA) -- MINJU CHOSON today warns that the Japanese authorities must act prudently, mindful that their ill-intentioned words and deeds might cause unpredictable grave consequences. The news analyst says: Recently the Japanese Foreign Minister, Tsutomu Hata raved that if the DPRK "refuses again to accept inspection or takes an irresolute attitude," Japan would "sternly counter it," alleging that the DPRK "is going to make nuclear weapons" and "is suspected of having one or two nuclear bombs." His outburst came at a time when the DPRK and the United States have agreed on immediate steps of simultaneous action and the third round of talks between them is soon to be held. This shows the Japanese reactionaries intend to attain at any cost their sinister purpose of accelerating their nuclear armament on the pretext of the "nuclear issue" of the DPRK. Japan's nuclear armament and overseas aggrandizement have reached a serious danger line. Japan has stockpiled a colossal amount of nuclear material and laid a material and technical foundation for the manufacture of nuclear weapons. With Japan's nuclear armament presenting a nuclear threat in actuality, the denuclearization of the Korean peninsula cannot be realised, and even if it is realised, it cannot ensure peace and security in this part of the world. Judging from facts, we conclude that however hard we may strive to denuclearize the Korean peninsula, it cannot be realised and, accordingly, the inter-Korean joint declaration on denuclearization might be reduced to a mere sheet of paper. Then we will have to reconsider our position toward the denuclearization of the Korean peninsula and the inter-Korean joint declaration will have to be nullified. In case the Japanese authorities' rash remarks worsen the problem, Japan will be wholly to blame for it. The Japanese authorities will have to account for their each word and deed and dearly pay for it.
