FBIS4-18867 "drweu070__a94020" FBIS-WEU-94-070-A Daily Report 12 Apr 1994 ANNEX United Kingdom Tories Intensify Their Spring Election Offensive Tories Intensify Their Spring Election Offensive PM1204091094 London THE GUARDIAN in English 12 Apr 94 p 1--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY PM1204091094 London THE GUARDIAN English BFN [Michael White report: "Poll Suggests Fatal Blow to Major Regime"] [Text] The Conservatives intensified their strident spring election offensive yesterday in the face of growing evidence that Labour and the Liberal Democrats are poised to inflict potentially fatal humiliations on John Major's embattled regime. While the Prime Minister endured a bumpy ride in Birmingham, which the Tories see as their best hope of municipal victory on May 5, a Mori poll for today's Times suggests that they could win as few as eight seats in European elections a month later, against 66 for Labour and 10 for the Liberal Democrats. Such an outcome on June 9 might trigger a crisis of confidence that could topple Mr Major. But the Mori poll is highly tentative with even Labour treating it with scepticism. "We cannot win 66 seats," said a senior official. On overall voting intentions, Mori places Labour at 48 per cent, the Tories at 28, and the Lib Dems at 21. Yesterday Mr Major and his cabinet lieutenants struggled to make the local elections a referendum on their opponents, municipal records, and tried to undo the offence caused in Labour-controlled Birmingham by an abrasive Tory election broadcast last week. After being accused of "throwing muck," at the whole city, Mr Major felt obliged to explain "I'm not bashing Brum [Birmingham]." As Labour hammered away at this week's higher council tax rates and joined the Liberal Democrats in urging voters to "cast a verdict on the Prime Minister and his policies," Tory headquarters reinforced its high-risk strategy of taking the war into the enemy camp. It dispatched Michael Portillo to trumpet the cost-cutting achievements of Westminster council, the flagship authority whose 245 pound Band D council tax is Britain's lowest and whose housing policies are under financial investigation. "It is no coincidence that the council which has produced the lowest council tax in the country is also the one which has led the way in contracting out its services to the private sector," the Treasury's Chief Secretary declared as Westminster councillors brushed aside questions about gerrymandering and issued a 32-page manifesto. Westminster, the symbol of Thatcherism in the 1990 local elections, would go Labour for the first time on an unlikely 10 per cent swing. In a BBC Radio interview, Mr Portillo praised the council's clean streets and smart estates. But Labour's Frank Dobson said it was quite extraordinary that a minister should identify with such a controversial regime whose achievements rested on financial favouritism from Whitehall. After a run of disastrous local election results, the Tory strategy in 1994 is emerging as a rerun of their 1992 general election campaign: to neutralise criticism by hurling similar charges back at their critics. It points to a dirty contest. The Times poll represents an aggregated analysis of voting intentions among 11,841 adults interviewed between January and March. The figures exclude undecided voters (7 per cent) and those not planning to vote (9 per cent).
