FBIS4-21478 "jpten010___94063" JPRS-TEN-94-010 JPRS Environmental Issues 31 March 1994 WEST EUROPE FINLAND Radiation Center, Greenpeace Split on Russia Nuclear Waste Radiation Center, Greenpeace Split on Russia Nuclear Waste LD3103214594 Helsinki Suomen Yleisradio Network in Finnish 1430 GMT 31 Mar 94 LD3103214594 Helsinki Suomen Yleisradio Network Finnish BFN [Passages within quotation marks recorded] [Excerpts] The destiny of nuclear waste from the Loviisa power plant in Russia is dividing Finnish opinion. The environmental organization Greenpeace, which visited the area, claims that the nuclear waste from Loviisa ends up in nuclear bombs. The Radiation Protection Center, which visited the area a little later, denies this categorically. Jaana Kanninen reports. Kanninen: The representatives of the Radiation Protection Center visited the Chelyabinsk nuclear plant in February and the representatives of international Greenpeace in January. They both had the same aim: to find out what happens to the nuclear waste from Loviisa and whether the Mayak reprocessing plant is safe. The people from the Radiation Protection Center were able to visit the actual closed town that consists of Chelyabinsk Number 65 with its 85,000 inhabitants and the military and non-miltary part of the Mayak nuclear plant. The Finns were not allowed in the military plant. Greenpeace, for its part, was not even allowed to visit the closed town but had to content itself with information from a capital city about 80 kilometers away. In reading the reports of those two groups it seems as if they are talking about different planets. One of the central claims of Greenpeace is that the nuclear waste from Loviisa at least partly ends up as material for nuclear bombs. [passage omitted] Nuclear safety manager Jukka Laaksonen from the Radiation Protection Center denies this categorically. Laaksonen: ``The nuclear waste from Loviisa is not used for military purposes, this is absolutely clear.'' Kanninen: Two military reactors are still operating in Mayak and they manufacture mainly tritium, an explosive used in nuclear warheads. Laaksonen says, however, that nuclear waste has nothing to do with the manufacturing of tritium. Ida Siimes of Greenpeace, for her part, thinks that it is quite possible that plutonium is also manufatured in Mayak and the spent nuclear fuel is suitable for that. The only thing the two parties agree on is the health of the local inhabitants. Laaksonen: ``It is clear that the old waste has caused an increased risk of cancer and some of the people in the area who have cancer have no doubt contracted it because of the waste.'' Kanninen: Jukka Laaksonen from the Radiation Protection Center says that the incidence of cancer is caused by old sins: accidents and emissions, of which there were many in the history of Chelyabinsk. According to him, the waste reprocessing plant is now well-managed and no emissions into the environment take place. Greenpeace disagrees. Siimes: ``The local laboratories in Chelyabinsk have measured an increase in the quantity of plutonium isotopes outside the closed area, and this is believed to be caused by Mayak's emissions into the atmosphere. The amount of plutonium has increased even in the 1990s and it is therefore reasonable to assume that the plant is still making dangerous emissions into the atmosphere.'' [passage omitted]
