FBIS3-468 "drafr045_c_94026" FBIS-AFR-94-045 Document Type:Daily Report 8 Mar 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA Mandela Blames Government for Bhambayi Killings MB0703163194 Johannesburg SAPA in English 1527 GMT 7 Mar 94 MB0703163194 Johannesburg SAPA Language: English Article Type:BFN [By Enrico Kemp] [Text] Tzaneen March 7 SAPA -- African National Congress [ANC] President Nelson Mandela on Monday [7 March] blamed township violence on the government's refusal to deploy troops in affected areas. Commenting on Sunday's massacre in Bhambayi, in which 11 people were killed, he said the ANC's recommendation that the police Internal Stability Division [ISD] be withdrawn was being "opposed at the highest level". "The government is moving very slowly on this issue. That is because it is still a white minority government which regards the lives of blacks as cheap -- like that of flies, " the ANC president said. Mr Mandela, who is on a three-day electioneering visit to the Northern Transvaal, was speaking to reporters soon after arriving by helicopter at Sekororo in rural Lebowa. He said killings such as that at Bhambayi should be expected because of the government's failure to maintain law and order. "Until the government decides to carry out our recommendations, the violence will worsen. We are doing our best to address the violence but we are not the government." Mr Mandela said the ISD was regarded by township communities as "carrying out war against the people." He said violence had subsided in East Rand townships after the deployment of the Army, but the conflict had now shifted to areas such as Bekkersdal and Bhambayi. The ANC leader said his movement would "be able to use the capacity and resources of the state" to end violence and maintain law and order after the April elections. Later, addressing a peoples' forum at the Sekororo showgrounds, about 50km south of Tzaneen, Mr Mandela vowed there would never be an Afrikaner "volkstaat" in South Africa as long as he lived. Mr Mandela heard several complaints from residents of the rural settlement about untarred roads, a shortage of classrooms, a lack of running water and unemployment. He said an ANC government would build houses, provide schools, tar roads and act decisively to end the exploitation of farm workers. He accused the National Party of spreading lies by claiming an ANC government would seize pensions. "Any government that takes away pension benefits from old people is not fit to govern. The ANC can never commit such cruelty." Mr Mandela is to address another peoples' forum in Sekhopo before flying on to Venda on Monday night.
