FBIS3-8223 "dreeu044_i_94019" FBIS-EEU-94-044 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Mar 1994 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA Muslim Offensive Against Serbs in Doboj Region LD0703135694 Belgrade TANJUG in English 1234 GMT 7 Mar 94 LD0703135694 Belgrade TANJUG Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Doboj, March 7 (TANJUG) -- A Muslim offensive against Serb positions and settlements continues in the region of Doboj in northern Bosnia-Herzegovina, where Serb troops have repelled four strong Musllim attacks, Bosnian Serb military sources said on Monday. The Muslim offensive operations have been the strongest in the area of Mounts Ozren and Trebava, south of Doboj, where the arrival of fresh Muslim troops has been observed, the same sources said. The Muslim side carried out three infantry attacks in the Mount Ozren area north-east of Zavidovici in an attempt to make a breakthrough and link up with Muslim troops south of Doboj. Serb troops took effective action and repelled the three attacks and also an attempted infantry breakthrough east of Zavidovici, forcing the enemy to return to the starting positions. All Serb settlements in the north-eastern part of Mount Ozren are a constant target of Muslim snipers, the Bosnian Serb military sources said. Muslim forces kept on opening fire from infantry weapons all along the frontline in the area of Brcko in northern Bosnia- Herzegovina on the night of March 6-7. Bosnian Muslim army commander Rasim Delic on Saturday said his troops would launch new operations against the Bosnian Serbs. He set out that, having signed the Washington agreement on a federation with the Bosnian Croats, the Muslims had one front less now and extra forces, the size of a few (?brigades), to send to the front against the Serbs. Muslim forces from the region of Gorazde in eastern Bosnia- Herzegovina resumed attacks on Serb defence lines in the areas of Ustikolina and Cajnice on the night of March 6-7. Although Gorazde is a U.N.-proclaimed Muslim "safe area," which was to be demilitarized, Muslim units from that area continue to engage in combat and even to try to get their commando-terrorist groups behind Serb lines, Bosnian Serb military sources said.
