FBIS3-33880 "drnes021_r_94003" FBIS-NES-94-021 Document Type:Daily Report 1 Feb 1994 India Chavan Criticizes Pakistan BK3001160694 Delhi All India Radio Network in English 1530 GMT 30 Jan 94 BK3001160694 Delhi All India Radio Network Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] The home minister, Mr. S.B. Chavan, has said that Pakistan has no moral right to raise the issue of alleged human rights violations in Kashmir, because Islamabad is mainly responsible for creating the present problem in the valley. Addressing a news conference in Jammu this afternoon, he said the recent call by Pakistan for a general strike is another proof of its support to the militants. The home minister said that Pakistan totally forgets that the worst kind of human rights violations have been perpetrated by its forces in its own province of Sindh and other areas. Mr. Chavan said that steps have been taken to counter the Pakistani disinformation campaign on the issue. Nonofficial organizations from India will be visiting different countries to put the record straight, he said. The home minister said that the Army has ordered an inquiry into the recent incident at Kupwara. Its findings will be made public. Replying to questions, Mr. Chavan said the government does not propose to appoint political advisers in Jammu and Kashmir. He said elections will be held in the state at an appropriate time. Government is prepared to hold negotiations with any group in the valley which is willing to discuss the matter within the framework of the constitution and is prepared to give up violence. Mr. Chavan said he has had discussions with different political parties separately adding that he may call a joint meeting of all parties on this issue. The home minister today completed a three-day tour of Jammu, Doda, Kishtwar. During his visit, he met a large number of people and leaders of political parties. He said the people have appreciated the induction of additional security forces in the area where some foreign mercenaries have also become active. Mr. Chavan also reviewed during his tour the financial problems of Jammu and Kashmir at meetings with the state governor and senior officials.
