FBIS4-12670 "drnes070_s_94003" FBIS-NES-94-070 Daily Report 12 Apr 1994 Iran Revolution Tribunals Dissolved in Court Reorganization Revolution Tribunals Dissolved in Court Reorganization LD1204104694 Tehran Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran First Program Network in Persian 0930 GMT 12 Apr 94 LD1204104694 Tehran Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran First Program Network Persian BFN [Text] During today's open session of the Islamic Majles the deputies approved a bill on establishing public and revolution courts. The justice minister [Mohammad Esma'il Shushtari] explained how this bill would affect the judicial branch. We draw your attention to his remarks: [Begin Shushtari recording] Under our existing legal apparatus, penal and criminal cases are in fact investigated in two stages; that is, in the prosecutor's office or tribunals [dadsara] as the first stage, and in the law court [mahkameh] as the second stage. The process is lengthy and each case lasts a long time. Whereas the latest bill combines the two stages into one. In other words, the prosecutor's office and the law court will investigate each case simultaneously to close the file quicker. The second point is that at present we have many courts of various categories investigating each case. Shortage of manpower or other necessary resources in the towns with judicial units has prevented the establishment of all such courts. As a result the people have faced difficulties and have had to travel to other judicial zones. Fortunately thanks to the latest bill, every branch of different courts is qualified to investigate all cases. The third point here is in fact the abolition of the penal and revolution tribunals. This does not mean such tribunals will no longer exist; rather their existing system is to be abolished and they will work with the courts as investigative judges. From this date, the main judicial bodies are the public courts and the revolution courts. The tribunals and prosecutor's offices will be dissolved. They will be working as investigative judges with and under the supervision of the courts and court judges. [end recording]
