FBIS4-61134 "drsov086_p_94004" FBIS-SOV-94-086 Daily Report 30 Apr 1994 CAUCASUS Armenia Industrial Privatization Program Discusses Industrial Privatization Program Discusses PM0305095794 Moscow PRAVDA in Russian 30 Apr 94 p 2 PM0305095794 Moscow PRAVDA Russian BFN [Report by Boris Mkrtchyan: "Armenia: Dying Patient Receives Shock Treatment"] [Text] Yerevan -- Trenchant discussion over the privatization of industrial enterprises has begun in Armenia. The charged nature of the discussion is largely due to the fact that the land reform implemented in the republic, which established private ownership of land and compulsorily eliminated all collective and state farms, has brought the complete collapse of the agraraian sector. Prime Minister G. Bagratyan, author of the "Armenian version" of reforms, recently stated that the government of the Republic sees the abandonment of state ownership as the only way to create the conditions necessary for effective production activity. The crux of the "Armenian version" of privatization, which was approved by the World Bank last year, basically amounts to the fact that 20 percent of shares in denationalized enterprises are to be retained by members of labor collectives. The free purchase and sale of vouchers will be carried out. Moreover, the government intends to ensure that businessmen who belong to the Armenian diaspora have free access to the purchase of shares in privatized enterprises. The authors of the "Armenian version" of reforms, as advocates of notorious "shock therapy," consider that society has to go through a long period of tough trials. The whole construct of such rapid and unconditional privatization of industry, which is close in essence to Gaydar's reforms, is posited on the highly dubious postulate that it is impossible to manage the state sector of the economy in conditions of free prices. Thus, the reformists of the Armenian economy are trying to relieve the state from a host of commitments and concerns regarding the people's welfare. "Shock therapy" in local conditions will lead to the predominance of corrupt groups and clans in the sphere of the economy.
