FBIS4-1295 "drafr080_c_94013" FBIS-AFR-94-080 Daily Report 25 Apr 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA Law, Order Minister Addresses Parliament on Security Law, Order Minister Addresses Parliament on Security MB2504125694 Johannesburg SAPA in English 1128 GMT 25 Apr 94 MB2504125694 Johannesburg SAPA English BFN [Text] Parliament April 25 SAPA -- Police had encountered logistical problems and a police officer made an error of judgement during attempts to search the ANC's Shell House headquarters following the fatal shooting of Zulu marchers, the Minister of Law and Order, Mr Hernus Kriel, said on Monday [25 April]. Speaking during the debate on constitutional amendments, he said the unsuccessful search of Shell House would form part of a Goldstone Commission inquiry into the march and subsequent shootings. "The principle remains that no one is above the law. It is absolutely essential that we find out the truth as soon as possible." Mr Kriel expressed regret at Monday's series of bomb blasts and said such incidents should never happen in a civilised country. The police assisted by the army would do their best to limit any escalation of violence during the election period. "Reckless actions and omissions" by the ANC, IFP [Inkatha Freedom Party] and the Conservative Party had created a climate for violence in the country. The ANC and IFP were involved in internecine violence which had claimed thousands of lives. Their leaders had repeatedly failed to meet to discuss their differences. The CP [Conservative Party] had incited people to violence and CP leader Mr Ferdi Hartzenberg had publicly declared his party would use violent means if they did not get a volkstaat [Afrikaner homeland]. Mr Kriel said several recent blasts had been with dynamite, and asked where the dynamite came from. The government had repeatedly warned the CP not to join forces with the Afrikaner Weerstandsbeweging [Resistance Movement -- AWB], but the CP did not have the courage to distance itself from the AWB.
