FBIS4-38458 "drsov104_r_94006" FBIS-SOV-94-104 Daily Report 27 May 1994 CAUCASUS Azerbaijan Karabakh Official Supports Unrecognized States Alliance Karabakh Official Supports Unrecognized States Alliance LD2705171294 Moscow INTERFAX in English 1101 GMT 27 May 94 LD2705171294 Moscow INTERFAX English BFN [Text] Although the Chairman of Karabakh's Defense Committee Robert Kocharyan has confirmed his support for an organization comprising unrecognized states, he has noted that his remark to this effect carried in the newspaper IZVESTIYA has been misinterpreted. "I believe" -- he said in an interview with Interfax on Thursday -- "that the nations fighting for self-determination and independence should combine their efforts and coordinate their actions with the measures undertaken by the international community to settle ethnic conflicts." IZVESTIYA reported on May 26, with reference to Kocharyan, that an alliance of unrecognized states would be formed soon. According to the newspaper, Kocharyan expects Karabakh to be joined in the organiziaztion by Crimea, Abkhazia, Adjaria, South Ossetia, and Transdniestria. He explained in this connection that "Karabakh's experience in attaining recognition as party to a conflict through persistent efforts could be instructive for other unrecognized states such as Abkhazia, Transdniestria, and South Ossetia." Meanwhile, Aleksandr Karaman, a vice-president of the self-proclaimed Dniester republic, has described such an alliance as feasible. In a telephone interview with Interfax on Thursday, he said that such a union had long ago been thought about and some work toward this end had been underway. He recalled that the matter had been touched upon at top-level talks between Transdniestria, Abkhazia, and some other unrecognized former USSR territories. "It's natural that people with similar destinies try to come together to solve similar problems collectively. Unity is the best way to prevent the repetition of tragic mistakes," Karaman remarked. However, Vice Chairman of Transdniestria's Supreme Soviet Vladimir Bodnar has declared that his republic does not intend to join an alliance of unrecognized states. He has told an Interfax reporter that he knows nothing about plans to set up such a union. "I do not understand why attempts are being made to draw us into an organization that we are not going to join, all the more so why Transnidestria is mentioned alongside with Crimea and Abkhazia, having a certain official status and quite ample powers," Bodnar said. "We seek to cement ties within the CIS rather than create some new alliances," he added. Chairman of Adjaria's Parliament Aslan Abashidze declared in an interview with Interfax on Thursday that there are no separatist trends in the republic. "It is an integral part of Georgia, and this blessing should be treasured," Abashidze said.
