FBIS4-22443 "jpusr037___94038" FBIS-USR-94-037 JPRS FBIS Report: Central Eurasia 31 March 1994 RUSSIA REGIONAL AFFAIRS Moscow Oblast Criminal Investigation Department Discussed Moscow Oblast Criminal Investigation Department Discussed Resignation of Chief Fedoseyev Examined by City Duma 944F0533A Moscow PRAVDA in Russian 31 Mar 94 p 4 944F0533A Moscow PRAVDA Russian CSO [Unattributed report: "In the Wake of Scandal: Moscow Criminal Investigation Without a Chief"] [Text] The Moscow City Duma's Commission on Law and Order and Anti-Crime Efforts has met to discuss the resignation of Yuriy Fedoseyev, chief of the Moscow Criminal Investigation Department. The official reason given for the resignation, which was signed by Minister Brin, was retirement on account of age. The unofficial and, of course, primary reason was poor relations with General Pankratov, head of the capital's Internal Affairs Main Administration. That version, the city Duma's press center confirmed, was the subject of discussion by the commission members, who determined to "get to the bottom of the reasons behind this firing." It is true that Fedoseyev has given 11 years "too much" service to his country. It is also true that the head of Moscow's Criminal Investigation Department is only a colonel -- something that does not happen if relations with those higher up are good. A general's rank is usually guaranteed. But the dual subordination of the Moscow Criminal Investigation Department's chief -- directly to the Ministry of Internal Affairs and only secondarily to the Moscow Internal Affairs Main Administration -- gives him many opportunities to become disliked. There was also an official reason: just prior to Fedoseyev's resignation General Pankratov issued new quotas for arrests and successful investigations in Moscow, quotas that exceed former ones by 50 percent. For example, whereas when it comes to arrests made by public safety offices or the highway police it is enough to "make an effort," while this mania for percentages, which the years of perestroyka and democracy have been enough to partially erase from our memory, will hit the Moscow Criminal Investigation Department particularly hard. Rumors are circulating that Fedoseyev expressed negative opinions of the new quotas to the militia leadership. For now the colonel, now in disfavor, has resigned, and no one knows whether he will become just another pensioner or file a lawsuit. In the latter case the capital can expect another carnival of militia/police disguises and ambitions.
