FBIS3-52275 "drnes002dd_94009" FBIS-NES-94-002 Document Type:Daily Report 4 Jan 1994 Palestinian Affairs Hamas Spokesman Denies Failure of Meeting JN0301102694 Amman AL-DUSTUR in Arabic 3 Jan 94 p 29 JN0301102694 Amman AL-DUSTUR Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [By Tawfiq 'Abid] [Excerpt] Information from Damascus indicates that the meeting of the 10 Palestinian factions, "the alliance of Palestinian forces," has failed. According to the information, the major issues of interest have been delayed for 10 days until representatives of the alliance recalculate and rethink their positions. Ibrahim Ghawshah, official spokesman for the Islamic Resistance Movement, Hamas, thinks otherwise. He said the above information is not precise. The Damascus meeting was successful. It overcame several obstacles and enhanced mutual trust between the 10 factions. In a statement to AL-DUSTUR, Ghawshah said: It has been agreed to stop media criticism between some factions and to settle any disputes through bilateral and general meetings between the representatives of the factions. It has also been decided to set up a technical committee to study the fact that several parties have been claiming credit for any single jihad operation in Palestine. Ghawshah added: More important than all of this was debating the organizational formula for which the important meeting was devoted, as well as endorsing a political program and naming the alliance of Palestinian forces. He said: Delaying the meeting for five days and Hamas' draft for an organizational formula has somewhat beclouded the future of the 10 factions. However, it was explained to the brothers that delaying the meeting was for technical reasons and that the proposed formula has been studied and adopted by the movement's leadership and has its justifications. Answering a question, he said: The two points raised by the Democratic Front for the Liberation of Palestine and the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine on 25 October 1993 were settled in the last meeting and a political program was finally adopted by all the factions. [passage omitted] Ghawshah said the political program emphasizes that the basic arena for jihad is inside the occupied territories. The program eventually aims at reconstruction PLO institutions on democratic bases.
