FBIS4-9984 "drlat066_n_94002" FBIS-LAT-94-066 Daily Report 5 Apr 1994 Chile Frei Tells Stange To Retire Frei Tells Stange To Retire PY0604020394 Santiago Radio Cooperativa Network in Spanish 2300 GMT 5 Apr 94 PY0604020394 Santiago Radio Cooperativa Network Spanish BFN [Report by Osvaldo Vega from La Moneda Palace] [Text] Today President Eduardo Frei personally told Carabineros Director General Rodolfo Stange that he needs to retire from the institution. This information was released through an official communique by Minister Secretary General of Government Victor Manuel Rebolledo this afternoon, after General Stange said at noon today after meeting with President Frei that he would not retire. Minister Rebolledo said that according to the government the decision of Judge Juica, who proposes the opening of criminal proceedings against Carabineros Generals Cesar Mendoza Duran, Rodolfo Stange, and other officers for serious violations of military duties, puts the Carabineros in a worrisome situation, as it obstructs the effective and adequate fulfillment of their functions. Rebolledo added: [Begin Rebolledo recording] Based on this situation, and with the purpose of guaranteeing above any other consideration the solidity and good operation of the Carabineros for fulfilling its duties, his excellency the president of the Republic conveyed to the Carabineros director general the need for him to retire, as a patriotic gesture in favor of the institution and the country. Unfortunately, Gen. Stange did not respond in a positive manner to the president's request. The president of the Republic, acting on behalf of the high interests of the country and of the Carabineros, trusts that Gen. Stange will reconsider his position, and if he does not the president will proceed to summon the National Security Council at the appropriate time. [end recording] Minister Rebolledo did not answer questions from reporters on the government's deadline for Gen. Stange to reconsider his position, or when the National Security Council would be summoned by the president in case of a negative answer from Gen. Stange. President Frei will preside over the council, which is also made up of the Senate president, the comptroller general, the commanders of the Armed Forces, and the Carabineros director general, all of whom have the right to vote. The other officials who can attend the National Security Council meeting, but without the right to vote, are some ministers.
