FBIS3-37255 "drsov031__a94014" FBIS-SOV-94-031 Document Type:Daily Report 15 February 1994 ANNEX Russia National Affairs St. Petersburg Mayor on CIS Prospects LD0702194294 Moscow RIA in English 1800 GMT 7 Feb 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY LD0702194294 Moscow RIA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Report by RIA special correspondent Lev Aksenov] [Text] St. Petersburg, February 7, RIA - "The Inter-Parliamentary Assembly has prepared many documents, especially on constitutional problems. I do not think this was a wasted effort, rather we now have here real capital to work with," St. Petersburg Mayor Anatoliy Sobchak said. In an interview with RIA, in the run-up to a session of the CIS Inter-Parliamentary Assembly Council which opens tomorrow, Sobchak noted that forum participants are to tackle many new issues in view of an altered political situation. In particular, he noted, it is necessary to elect a new chairman of the council. In his view, a representative of Russia could fill this post, for example, Vladimir Shumeyko, the chairman of the Federation Council of the Federal Assembly. Speaking of the situation in the CIS, Sobchak praised the work of the Inter-Parliamentary Assembly, which, according to him, "promoted integration processes" in the Commonwealth. The very fact that its headquarters is in this city, continued the mayor, "will make it a focus of attraction for all CIS member-countries". Sobchak stressed the need to step up integration processes in the CIS, above all in the economic area. Citing the Russian president's recent visit to Georgia, the mayor pointed out that it became apparent there "where a civil war can bring a country". [sentence as received] "Realisation that by disrupting economic links we did tremendous damage to each other is helping us to take past mistakes into account". "If," he went on, "we want to get out of the crisis together, the best thing is to do it jointly. "Today, in view of the depth of crisis in some CIS countries, even Russia finds it simply unprofitable economically to make agreements without protecting its rouble and its interests".
