FBIS4-26737 "drchi123_n_94003" FBIS-CHI-94-123 Daily Report 27 Jun 1994 Economic & Agricultural Government To Shut Down `Inefficient' State Enterprises Government To Shut Down `Inefficient' State Enterprises HK2706064294 Hong Kong SOUTH CHINA MORNING POST in English 27 Jun 94 p 9 HK2706064294 Hong Kong SOUTH CHINA MORNING POST English BFN [By Zhang Yuan] [Text] Inefficient state enterprises will be closed down or declared bankrupt despite a 250 billion yuan (HK$223 billion) fund earmarked for technological developments by the Chinese Government, according to a senior government official. State Economic and Trade Commission vice-director Xu Penghang recently revealed that the Government had allocated 250 billion yuan this year to help enterprises upgrade their production technology. However, priority would be given to existing market leaders, which would receive up to 70 per cent of the allocation. The standard of the firms' present management and production would be the prime indicators in selecting the enterprises, Mr Xu said. Unlike previously, Mr Xu said some of the cash would be made available to joint-venture and township enterprises. Reviewing the developments between 1990 and 1993 -- the first three years of the Eighth Five-Year Plan -- Mr Xu said the state had spent 467.9 billion yuan on technological improvements. About 60 per cent of this was used to increase variety and improve product quality. But Mr Xu said much of the cash had been wasted on fixed-asset investments, and the portion actually used for technology improvements had declined over the years. Some enterprises were preoccupied with expanding their business and neglected the importance of product quality, the vice-director said. He worried that if such a trend was not reversed, the demand for Chinese products would decrease. Mr Xu said the actual growth in productivity in China was very slow, despite rapid industrial expansion. Although China had overtaken both Japan and the United States in the production of many industrial products, China lagged far behind in terms of sales volumes when compared with Japan and the U.S. because of the low value-addition of Chinese products, he said. Beijing sources said the senior echelon hoped the allocation of more money for technological improvements would help the state industry narrow the gap with its Western counterparts.
