FBIS3-26809 "drchi031_q_94003" FBIS-CHI-94-031 Document Type:Daily Report 15 Feb 1994 Southwest Region Reports on Tibet Deputy Secretary's Activities Views Ideological Work OW1402102194 Lhasa Tibet People's Radio Network in Mandarin 1430 GMT 5 Feb 94 OW1402102194 Lhasa Tibet People's Radio Network Language: Mandarin Article Type:BFN [From the "News" program] [Excerpts] The Tibet Autonomous Region Party Committee met in Lhasa today to convey the guidelines laid down by the national conference on propaganda and ideological work. Gyaincain Norbu, deputy secretary of the regional party committee and chairman of the regional people's government, made an important speech at the meeting. He stressed: Party committees at all levels in Tibet must fully understand the great significance of the national conference on propaganda and ideological work, and earnestly study the guidelines laid down in the important speeches made by General Secretary Jiang Zemin, Premier Li Peng, Vice Premier Zhu Rongji, and Propaganda Department Head Ding Guanggen at the conference. We must properly study, comprehend, and implement these guidelines, and then push Tibet's propaganda and ideological work to a higher level. [passage omitted] Gycaincain Norbu's speech has these four parts: 1) We must carry out all major assignments set for propaganda and ideological work, firmly adhering to the basic principles for party work. 2) We must have a clear idea of the situation at home and abroad and seize the opportunity to accelerate Tibet's reform and development. 3) We must consider it our responsibility to maintain social stability and persist in carrying out all reform projects. 4) Party committees and governments at all levels must provide stronger leadership over propaganda and ideological work. [passage omitted] Gycaincain Norbu stressed: Party committees and governments at all levels must attach importance to and support propaganda and ideological work, provide cadres engaged in propaganda and ideological work with the necessary working conditions, and help them solve their practical problems. We should not begrudge spending some money on propaganda and ideological projects. We must gradually improve the working conditions for the propaganda front, even if it means that we have to economize in other areas. We must strive to correct the current problems on the propaganda front -- problems such as shortage of personnel, poor quality of workers, simple and crude working conditions, and outmoded measures -- so that there will be noticeable improvements and propaganda and ideological work can become more effective. The meeting was chaired by Denzim, deputy secretary of the regional party committee. Chan Hanchang, member of the regional party committee standing committee and head of the propaganda department of the regional party committee, conveyed the guidelines of the national conference on propaganda and ideological work. He also elaborated on the guidelines laid down by Jiang Zemin, Li Peng, Zhu Rongji, and Ding Guangen in the important speeches they made at the national conference propaganda and ideological work. [passage omitted] Attending the meeting were regional party committee leaders Hu Yongzhu, Zi Cheng, Lieque, and Lu Huimin; as well as party member-cadres of the regional people's congress, the regional government, the regional committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference, the Tibet Military District, and the regional armed police forces; persons in charge of various regional units; party member-cadres of county and high-level propaganda departments; and persons in charge of propaganda work in some prefectures and cities.
