FBIS4-25137 "drchi109_d_94002" FBIS-CHI-94-109 Daily Report 7 Jun 1994 Northeast Asia Hong Kong Daily Views DPRK Nuclear Impasse Hong Kong Daily Views DPRK Nuclear Impasse HK0706101694 Hong Kong HSIN WAN PAO in Chinese 7 Jun 94 p 3 HK0706101694 Hong Kong HSIN WAN PAO Chinese BFN ["Evening talk" column by Yang Chu (5017 2612): "Opposing Imposition of Sanctions; Dispatch of Troops Unlikely"] [Text] "Being Unofficial" The five permanent members of the UN Security Council--China, Britain, the United States, France, and Russia--began to discuss the Korean issue today. Since the DPRK is accused of not cooperating with the International Atomic Energy Agency [IAEA] by refusing to accept inspections of its nuclear facilities, the United States has called for the imposition of economic sanctions on the DPRK. It is said that China is opposed to the immediate convocation of a full meeting of the 15 members of the UN Security Council, therefore, a session of the five permanent members will be held first and will be "unofficial." Being Marathon It is also said that the unofficial meeting of the five major powers could continue for several weeks. Several weeks are enough time for many things to occur outside the meeting. In other words, before the five major powers come to a conclusion regarding whether or not they will impose sanctions, activities external to the meeting intended to alleviate the tension and find a way out may have already borne fruit, the economic sanctions proposal may not need to be officially proposed, and China may not need to choose between vetoing or abstaining from vetoing a decision. International Meeting? Regarding Russia's proposal to hold an international conference to discuss the Korean nuclear crisis, DPRK Foreign Minister Kim Yong-nam, who is currently visiting Kiev, Ukraine, said: "We are interested in it and studying it." He did not say no. As for Beijing, foreign dispatches reported that Chinese Foreign Ministry officials say they will seriously consider Russia's proposal to call an international meeting. But the government's XINHUA News Agency has yet to release such a report. China had favored a quadripartite trilateral [as published] meeting of the DPRK, ROK, the United States, and the IAEA to resolve the Korean crisis. Quadripartite Trilateral Meeting Yesterday, Chen Jian, Chinese deputy representative to the UN Security Council, said in the United Nations: "We think the possibility of resolving the problem through dialogue between the parties directly concerned still exists." His remarks still mean that China favors a quadripartite trilateral meeting to resolve the problem. They did not contradict "seriously considering" Russia's proposal and this cannot be interpreted as a change in the original stance. "Seriously considering" leaves a little more room for maneuver and, when necessary, one more choice. Choe Kwang's China Visit Another noteworthy news item today is that the DPRK Chief of General Staff Choe Kwang is leading a DPRK military delegation on a visit to Beijing. At a banquet in their honor, General Zhang Wannian, the Chinese Chief of General Staff, mentioned the traditional friendship established in blood between the Chinese and Korean peoples and between their armies . Earlier, the DPRK announced that if economic sanctions were imposed, this meant war. People were therefore prompted about whether Choe Kwang's China visit had something to do with preparations for war? They were reminded of the movement to resist U.S. aggression and aid Korea and of the Chinese volunteers who bravely and heroically crossed the Yalu River in the early 1950's. Two Will Not's Will such a thing happen? No. We can come to this conclusion now from two things. First, China will not agree to economic sanctions against the DPRK in the UN Security Council. Second, China will not dispatch troops to become involved itself in a "Korean war"--a "Korean war which will most probably not occur.
