FBIS4-61498 "drsov088_a_94022" FBIS-SOV-94-088 Daily Report 5 May 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Azerbaijan Seen Spiting Moscow in Signing Partnership Azerbaijan Seen Spiting Moscow in Signing Partnership MK0505140094 Moscow KOMMERSANT-DAILY in Russian 5 May 94 p 4 MK0505140094 Moscow KOMMERSANT-DAILY Russian BFN [Svetlana Sukhova report: "Azerbaijan Signs NATO Program. Aliyev Has Preferred a Brussels Trip to Talks With Armenians"] [Excerpt] A situation developing in the Armenian-Azerbaijani conflict clearly does not favor Baku. Yesterday, Armenian troop units continued their advance along the northern (Geranboy), northeastern (Ter-Ter), and eastern (Agdam-Agdzhabedi) axes. Owing to the aggravation of tensions Azerbaijani Supreme Soviet Speaker Rasul Guliyev could not arrive in Bishkek for talks with an Armenian delegation and representatives of Nagorno-Karabakh Armenians. Instead, he sent his deputy, Afiyaddin Dzhalilov. Azerbaijani leader Geydar Aliyev did not arrive for the talks, either: He chose another venue for a visit, Brussels. Yesterday, he signed an agreement on Azerbaijan's joining the "Partnership for Peace" program at NATO headquarters. That Aliyev's demarche has been prompted by the desire to spite Russia was confirmed by its abruptness. By some accounts, it was precisely the recommendation not to rush the signing of the NATO program, given to parliament Speaker Rasul Guliyev the day before yesterday in Moscow, that "helped" the Azerbaijani president definitely to make up his mind. In addition, Azerbaijan, which has lost over 20 percent of its territory, has yet another reason to affix its signature to the "Partnership" agreement. The TURAN news agency has been told at the Azerbaijani Defense Ministry that units made up completely of Russian servicemen have been sighted seizing settlements and turning them over to Armenian formations in a number of front sectors (six villages in the Agdam district alone). At the same time, the "sighted Russians" use state-of-the-art military equipment, including T-80 tanks; the Russian Foreign Ministry would not comment on the report. [passage omitted]
