FBIS3-61525 "jpust004___94105" JPRS-UST-94-004 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Central Eurasia 26 January 1994 LIFE SCIENCES MEDICINE AND PUBLIC HEALTH Environmental Monitoring System of Natural Water Conditions 947C0156B Kiev GIDROBIOLOGICHESKIY ZHURNAL in Russian Vol 29 No 3, May-Jun 93 pp 88-95 947C0156B Kiev GIDROBIOLOGICHESKIY ZHURNAL Language: Russian Article Type:CSO [Article by S.V. Kreneva, Azov Scientific Research Institute of Fishery Industry, Rostov na Donu; UDC [593.17:574.63](08)(28)] [Abstract] The widening gap between the rates at which new contaminants appear the maximum permissible concentrations (PDK) are developed for them and the impossibility of reliably extrapolating the experimental observation data to natural reservoirs made MPCs irrelevant in today's toxicology studies and called for conducting environmental research at the biocenosis level. Thus, only standards and forecasts developed on the basis of studies of natural biocenosis under natural conditions may be regarded as reliable, especially since the man-caused factor has become a customary event in such research. As a result, methods are proposed of establishing MPCs not from test-tube data but for the specific ecosystem and the pollution sources which affect it. The proposed system of biological analysis and monitoring methods was refined in large bodies of water with a powerful current system, i.e., Ladoga, Onega, and Baykal lakes. A block diagram of such biological analysis under complex hydrological conditions is cited, and the contaminated flow ecosystem dynamics are plotted. The systemic approach used is divided into three phases. The biological analysis system's concluding stages involve setting the standards for the man-caused burden and establishing monitoring and prediction methods for use in the most severe cases, i.e., large bodies of water. The system may be simplified considerably for smaller reservoirs with a less complicated hydrological conditions while maintaining the principal analysis premises. Figures 2; references 10: 8 Russian, 2 Western.
