FBIS4-15970 "drsov071_c_94003" FBIS-SOV-94-071 Daily Report 12 Apr 1994 Federal Assembly Zhirinovskiy May Face Trial for Duma Brawl Zhirinovskiy May Face Trial for Duma Brawl MK1204140094 Moscow KURANTY in Russian 12 Apr 94 p 2 MK1204140094 Moscow KURANTY Russian BFN [Yan Ulanskiy report: "The Inviolables"] [Text] To all appearances, the brawl started by Zhirinovskiy on 8 April in the State Duma hall will cause a lot of trouble for the Liberal Democratic Party of Russia [LDPR) leader. First, the "Russia's Choice" faction has demanded that Zhirinovskiy's outrageous escapades be stopped. The matter has been passed to the State Duma ethics subcommission. But this is nothing compared with what is to come. Complaints by deputies and a journalist, who were assaulted by Zhirinovskiy, and also by witnesses to the scuffle may have more serious consequences. State Duma Chairman Ivan Rybkin has promised to pass these documents to the general prosecutor. This entails the quite realistic possibility that a criminal lawsuit may be filed on charges of hooliganism. In Vladimir Lukin's opinion, "any citizen should be brought to account for hooliganism." If the lawsuit is filed, Lukin will vote to strip V.V. Zh. [Zhirinovskiy] of his deputy immunity. Vitaliy Sevastyanov declined to comment on the incident, however, citing a lack of information. Many communists do not see any wrongdoing here at all, dismissing the affair as yet another clash between "Russia's Choice" and the LDPR. This appears all the stranger because none of "Russia's Choice" members was involved in the scuffle. Even though they apparently could have been. For instance, Aleksandr Osovtsov wished he were in the hall at the time. "I would have knocked his head off, with pleasure. You cannot get at him otherwise." Valeriy Borshchev, who participated in the fight, revealed a curious detail. When he saw that Zhirinovskiy was beating up Vladimir Borzyuk, he first of all turned to security personnel who maintain order at the State Duma. But they said that for them the deputies had inviolability whatever they might be doing.
