FBIS4-49982 "drchi092_w_94009" FBIS-CHI-94-092 Daily Report 11 May 1994 HONG KONG & MACAO Hong Kong Chief Secretary Rejects Proposal on Civil Servants' Status Chief Secretary Rejects Proposal on Civil Servants' Status HK1105061194 Hong Kong SOUTH CHINA MORNING POST in English 11 May 94 p 6 HK1105061194 Hong Kong SOUTH CHINA MORNING POST English BFN [By Linda Choy] [Text] The head of the civil service, Anson Chan Pang On-sang, yesterday warned any attempts to destabilise the system would be resisted. She also rejected a proposal for civil servants to indicate before 1997 if they would be willing to serve the Special Administrative Region government. Mrs Chan, the Chief Secretary, said arrangements for the continuity of the civil service had been set out in the Joint Declaration and the Basic Law. "Indeed senior Chinese officials, including the Director of the Hong Kong and Macao Affairs Office, have already repeatedly assured Hong Kong civil servants on this point," she said. "The continuity of service provisions are very clear and we do not believe that any further action is required." The political sub-group of the Preliminary Working Committee recently proposed that civil servants should indicate their post-1997 plans. The proposal was criticised as a form of political vetting. Mrs Chan said civil servants did not have a political role and their duty to serve the community should not alter before or after 1997. The civil service would not pursue private agendas or promote the policies of individuals, she said. Despite China's refusal to discuss the line-up of senior civil servants, Mrs Chan said the Government believed a dialogue should begin as soon as possible. Only 22 positions would be affected by requirements, regarding the nationality of civil servants, in the Joint Declaration and the Basic Law, she said. In the meantime, the Government would continue to fill the most senior government posts with local officers while adopting measures to restore the confidence of civil servants.
