FBIS4-12103 "drnes066dd_94005" FBIS-NES-94-066 Daily Report 4 Apr 1994 Palestinian Affairs Islamic Jihad on Cairo Agreement, Police Deployment Islamic Jihad on Cairo Agreement, Police Deployment TA0504151494 Jerusalem AL-QUDS in Arabic 4 Apr 94 pp 1, 19 TA0504151494 Jerusalem AL-QUDS Arabic BFN [Text] Gaza -- The Islamic Jihad Movement yesterday criticized the recent Cairo agreement signed between the PLO and Israel. Noting the continuing daily massacres being perpetrated against the Palestinian people's sons, it stressed that this agreement cannot protect even its supporters. In its monthly statement, distributed yesterday in the Gaza Strip, Islamic Jihad said that the entry of the Palestinian police into the Gaza Strip and Jericho is no more than a failed attempt "to deceive the people." The statement pointed out that in view of the Gaza-Jericho accord, the international police and forces will not be able to provide real protection to the Palestinian people. The statement criticized the spread of large numbers of weapons among residents and said that honorable persons should not use weapons against the people. The statement called on all political forces to impose on their cadres rules of ethics in order to confront this problem so that it would not turn into a muscle-flexing phenomenon and a means for intimidating and coercing people. The statement referred to the phenomenon of killing individuals accused of collaborating with the Israeli security agencies and said that this issue is now causing great anxiety among the people and is raising questions and doubt about whether justice and truth were pursued when those executions were carried out. The statement also noted the recent increase in strikes. It considered strikes to be a means for expressing rejection of the occupation, which should not turn into a means for proving one's self and factional muscle-flexing. The statement called on all Palestinian factions and political forces to ease the burden of the masses and to refrain from exhausting them with more competing and repetitious strikes.
