FBIS4-16555 "drsov074_a_94021" FBIS-SOV-94-074 Daily Report 16 Apr 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Bosnia Air Raids Raise Questions About PFP Bosnia Air Raids Raise Questions About PFP PM1804112194 Moscow KOMSOMOLSKAYA PRAVDA in Russian 16 Apr 94 p 1 PM1804112194 Moscow KOMSOMOLSKAYA PRAVDA Russian BFN [Leonid Timofeyev report under "NATO News" rubric: "Let Us Delay Partnership"] [Text] Of course, the bombing of Serbian positions by NATO air forces could not fail to affect the prospects of Russia joining NATO's Partnership for Peace program. Although, as Boris Yeltsin bluntly stated on the last day of his visit to Spain, "for the time being we are not linking the signing of the document and the complication of the situation in Bosnia. But we are in no hurry to sign it." Indeed, is it worth rushing if the partnership program claims that stability and security in the Euroatlantic region can be achieved only on the basis of cooperation and joint actions, yet it is not even thought necessary to brief Moscow about NATO's bombing of the Serbs? But in that case what is going to happen on the date of 21 April announced by the mass media, when Andrey Kozyrev is due to set off for Brussels in order to sign the document? We have learned that there are no official understandings with NATO about this time frame. And not everything about this program is clear to the Russian parliament yet. At a parliamentary committee hearing Thursday [14 April] on the subject of "The Partnership for Peace Program and the Future of the CIS," there was a question about how much participation in the program will cost us. According to the military, during the initial stage the resources allocated to the Defense Ministry within the 1994 budget are quite sufficient. True, fears are still being expressed that the NATO partnership will restrict the potential of the Russian military-industrial complex in the arms trade. Defense industry workers themselves believe that participation in the program is unlikely to affect exports substantially because we have already been squeezed out of international weapons markets. By all accounts the signing of the program has been postponed because, Kozyrev stated, we are interested in much more serious relations precluding surprises and unilateral measures, especially military ones.
