FBIS4-13293 "drnes075_f_94001" FBIS-NES-94-075 Daily Report 13 Apr 1994 Morocco Wrapup of Reports on GATT Meetings, Speeches, Results Wrapup of Reports on GATT Meetings, Speeches, Results Mexican Commerce Secretary Comments PA1604202694 Mexico City XEW Television Network in Spanish 0430 GMT 13 Apr 94 PA1604202694 Mexico City XEW Television Network Spanish BFN [From the "24 Hours" newscast] [Text] Commerce ministers from 125 countries started a four-day meeting in Marrakech, Morocco, which will close with the signing of the GATT. This document is over 20,000 pages long and considered the most important commercial agreement in history. Commerce Secretary Jaime Serra Puche is representing Mexico. Moroccan Crown Prince Sidi Mohamed delivered a welcoming speech to open the meeting, which will conclude Friday with the signing of the final draft of the GATT. The crown prince arrived at 1000 sharp, representing his father, Hassan II. More than 120 representatives of GATT member countries arrived simultaneously at the Marrakech Convention Center to participate in the final meetings. The Mexican delegation was among them. Speaking shortly before the plenum, Jaime Serra Puche, Mexico's secretary of commerce and industrial development, stressed important aspects of our times. He said that reciprocal commercial opening and greater competition among production plants [plantas] will prompt us to increase the scales of production and to redistribute revenue margins. This is how the Uruguay Round will promote the creation of new jobs and increase the salaries of our workers, he added. [Begin Serra recording] Mexico is convinced that the new world commerce organization must focus on three main actions: 1. Deepening reciprocal commerce liberalization by eliminating barriers and distortions that are still standing in various productive sectors. 2. Updating and improving the various areas [disciplinas] of the multilateral system of commerce to rid them of unilateral measures and reverting protectionist trends. 3. Ensuring an appropriate interaction between the competition policy and commercial measures to fight unfair practices. [end recording] Secretary Jaime Serra Puche also advocated respect for the environment and protection of labor rights.
