FBIS3-47032 "dreas006__a94009" FBIS-EAS-94-006-A Document Type:Daily Report 10 January 1994 ANNEX Japan DPRK Normalization Talks To Resume in Feb OW1001051494 Tokyo TOKYO SHIMBUN in Japanese 9 Jan 94 Morning Edition p 2--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY OW1001051494 Tokyo TOKYO SHIMBUN Language: Japanese Article Type:BFN [Text] The DPRK (North Korea) has accepted international inspections of its seven nuclear sites and North-South dialogue as a result of progress in U.S.-North Korea talks on North Korea's suspected nuclear development. In response, Japan-North Korea normalization talks, which have been stalled, are expected to resume some time in February. Japanese negotiators in charge of the normalization talks strongly believe that the Japan-North Korea normalization talks will be resumed before or after the third round of U.S.-North Korea high-level talks that are expected to be held in February. Since the eighth round of talks, which were held in Beijing in November 1992, the Japan-North Korea normalization talks have not been held for over one year. The Japanese side has already asked the North Korean side to hold preliminary consultations to discuss procedures for resuming the normalization talks. The North Korean side has yet to respond to the request from the Japanese side because of its position of giving priority to the U.S.-North Korea talks. Hajime Fukada, chief of the Youth Bureau of the Social Democratic Party of Japan (secretary general of the Dietmen's League for the Promotion of Japan-North Korea Friendship), visited North Korea earlier in January. The North Korean side told him that North Korea is willing to hold preliminary consultations with the Japanese side, giving the impression that North Korea has begun moving to resume normalization talks with Japan. Mr. Fukuda visited North Korea at the invitation of Hwang Chang-yop, director of the International Department of the Workers' Party of Korea. During his stay in Pyongyang, he held talks with Mr. Hwang Chang-yop and Kim Yang-kon, deputy director of the International Department. North Korea's willingness to resume normalization talks may mean that it is fully prepared for the talks after overcoming a waver in the recent shakeup of the Workers' Party of Korea.
