FBIS4-18592 "drweu067_h_94004" FBIS-WEU-94-067 Daily Report 6 Apr 1994 Germany DIHT Opposes EU Social Policy Proposals DIHT Opposes EU Social Policy Proposals AU0604141894 Duesseldorf HANDELSBLATT in German 6 Apr 94 p 21 AU0604141894 Duesseldorf HANDELSBLATT German BFN ["froe" report: "DIHT Opposes European Social Standard"] [Text] Bonn -- The Federation of German Chambers of Industry and Commerce [DIHT] has come out against a harmonization of the social policy of the European Union [EU] at the present time. The top organization of the industrial and trade chambers criticized the Commission's "Green Paper on European Social Policy" by saying that the authors want to pursue "social policy under the cover of an `active' labor market policy." The Green Paper is to show ways to fulfill the demand of the Maastricht Treaty to have European integration accompanied by sociopolitical measures. The DIHT welcomes the approach of the Green Paper, according to which "social progress is possible only by means of economic success," and also agrees that the social services must be used more purposefully to provide greater incentives to look for work. In this way the DIHT thinks that the wrong use of state funds for the labor market could be reduced and employment increased. However, the top organization thinks that the authors of the Green Paper do not pursue their own principles any further. When they make the right to work the starting point of European social policy, which the EU members must fulfill by means of jobs that are subsidized by the state, this can no longer be brought in harmony with the principle of economic compatibility, the DIHT says. The EU's social safeguard systems have already reached the limits of their economic capacity. The DIHT also has budget policy reasons for warning against a uniformly high standard of social services, in particular since the levels of social achievement are still very different in the individual countries. The DIHT also calls into question the "right of the individual to advanced training throughout his or her working life," which the authors of the Green Paper postulate. Such a right would decouple qualifications from the requirements of the labor market "and thus have an effect contrary to what the EU Commission is striving for." Separating qualifications from company policy would, at the same time, require state financing, which none of the EU states could guarantee. Rather, the working people's own interest must be mobilized to contribute themselves to competitiveness on the labor market and to use their money and leisure time for this purpose.
