FBIS4-39058 "drsov108_d_94013" FBIS-SOV-94-108 Daily Report 6 Jun 1994 Regional Affairs Kalmyk President Says `Off-shore Zone' Becoming Reality Kalmyk President Says `Off-shore Zone' Becoming Reality LD0606101494 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1001 GMT 6 Jun 94 LD0606101494 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [By BUSINESS-TASS correspondent Robert Serebrennikov] [Text] Moscow June 6 TASS -- "The off-shore zone in Kalmykia is becoming a reality", declared Kalmyk President Kirsan Ilyumzhinov in an interview with BUSINESS-TASS on Monday. The Republic of Kalmykia, possessing lots of potential resources, is now facing the problem of attracting foreign investment, the president said. It was decided to make the creation of an off-shore zone on the republic's territory the center-piece of its investment programme. The first step in the realization of this goal was the Kalmyk president's decree lowering the republic's tax rates on profit. The advantageous rates will be available for those enterprises and businesses which do not use local raw material and financial resources and which attract outside investment into the republic. Tax breaks are also planned for banks, insurance companies, and enterprises, whose capital is 100 per cent foreign. This policy brought immediate returns. There are now many foreign companies, some of them quite large, who are applying to the Kalmykia mission in Moscow for permission to work in the off-shore zone. A branch of the republic's registration chamber has opened in the mission to deal with the applications. There are already about 100 foreign companies and firms working in Kalmykia. Some of the most attractive aspects of the off-shore zone in Kalmykia are the republic's political stability, the low crime rate, and the absence of mafia structures. Ilyumzhinov specially stressed that the off-shore zone in Kalmykia follows the principle of "environmental economy". This principle declares that all joint projects with the use of Russian or foreign capital are carried out only after a strict assessment of their environmental impact. "I am sure that the off-shore zone will show its first real results in two years", the president declared.
