FBIS4-3412 "drchi075_o_94007" FBIS-CHI-94-075 Daily Report 18 Apr 1994 REGIONAL AFFAIRS East Region Shandong Governor Zhao Zhihao Discusses Economy Shandong Governor Zhao Zhihao Discusses Economy SK1904074494 Jinan Shandong People's Radio Network in Mandarin 2300 GMT 18 Apr 94 SK1904074494 Jinan Shandong People's Radio Network Mandarin BFN [Text] The provincial people's government sponsored an enlarged plenum on the afternoon of 18 April to hear the report on the economic situation prevailing in the first quarter and to make work arrangements for the next period. During the plenum, Governor Zhao Zhihao delivered a speech in which he contended: The general situation prevailing in the first quarter was good and main manifestations were that the measures for reform were issued in an associated way, these measures were enforced more smoothly, the economic operation was basically normal, a faster economic growth was maintained, some social contradictions were dissolved, social stability was maintained, and the work style of organs improved obviously. The province made a good start in various areas thanks to the positive efforts made by units at all levels and various departments and the province can still maintain a higher speed in economic development in the second quarter. However, the economic environment will tend to be strained. Zhao Zhihao pointed out: In conducting work in the second quarter, we should give priority to grasping reform and stability to promote the healthy development of the economy. By no means should we contend for speed, open enterprises, and new projects blindly. Efforts should be made to realistically orient the guiding ideology of economic work onto the track of readjusting structure, making technical progress, enhancing management, and increasing economic results. In his speech Governor Zhao emphatically put forward demands in the following five aspects: 1. We should earnestly implement the spirit of the rural work conference sponsored by the central authorities; vigorously realize the stable increase in the output of grains, cotton, and oil-bearing seeds; enable the rural economy to achieve development in an overall way; and increase peasants' income on a large scale. 2. A good job should be done in directing enterprises, particularly large and medium-sized enterprises, and enterprises encountering difficulties to improve their production and operation and to conduct technical renovations. Efforts should be made to accelerate the merger, association, auction, rent, and reform in share-holding systems among the enterprises that are encountering particular difficulties. We should find a way out from conducting reform and enable them to get rid of their difficulties as soon as possible. 3. We should give priority to key projects and further deepen the reform in an overall way. Units at provincial, prefectural, and county levels should give priority to reform and push the reform forward in an overall way. State-owned, collectively-owned, and township enterprises should shift their business mechanism in an overall way. Problems cropping up in the reform in the financial and tax systems should be dealt with as quickly as possible. We should make great progress in establishing the systems of social security this year. In line with the practical situation, reform in the housing systems should be gradually carried out in stages and by group. We have no problems related to going too far and too fast in opening up, so should take faster steps and adopt more effective measures in this regard. 4. A good job should be done in enlivening the financial affairs and expanding the channels of raising funds to relieve the contradiction of fund shortage. 5. Various industries, trades, and departments should closely coordinate with one another to vigorously maintain social stability.
