FBIS4-41739 "drsov124_b_94005" FBIS-SOV-94-124 Daily Report 27 Jun 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political Issues Filatov Views Necessity of Anticrime Decree Filatov Views Necessity of Anticrime Decree LD2706172294 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1624 GMT 27 Jun 94 LD2706172294 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [by ITAR-TASS correspondent Tamara Zamyatina] [Text] Moscow June 27 TASS -- "During the discussion of the president's decree on the protection of the population from organised crime and the drive against bandits it became clear that the majority of society regards the decree as the necessary measure to curb crime in Russia," said Presidential Chief of Staff Sergey Filatov, commenting on the president's decree which took effect on Monday. As for the opinion of a commissioner for human rights, Sergey Kovalev, who suggested that the president should recall his decree, Filatov said that "his position, strengthened by his experience as a human rights advocator, deserves respect." Nevertheless, Filatov said "we believe that we shall manage to avoid abuse as regards the rights of an individual when applying the president's anti-crime decree." Filatov's opinion is shared by the general prosecutor's office which shall exercise control over its implementation. "Any incident when a suspect is detained should be registered in a protocol and its legitimacy is subject to control. An investigation is already under way into 17 incidents of detention without sufficient grounds, which is also a guarantee of the protection of the rights of an individual. Besides, the decree applies only to the most violent crimes," Filatov said. "We do not live in totalitarian society. Such a powerful weapon as the freedom of speech will be a counterbalance to any encroachments on citizens' rights," Filatov said. Filatov pointed out that his worst apprehensions were caused by the blending of the criminal world and the world of officials. "This "knot" might become a means of settling scores with "unwanted" people, which cannot be allowed. The decree on the fight against bandits puts a barrier to this dangerous process," Filatov said in conclusion.
