FBIS3-58066 "drweu005aa_94004" FBIS-WEU-94-005 Document Type:Daily Report 7 January 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Woerner: NATO Air Strikes Still Possible in Bosnia AU0701121294 Paris AFP in English 1206 GMT 7 Jan 94 AU0701121294 Paris AFP Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Brussels, Jan 7 (AFP) -- The West is still holding open the option of air strikes to free up relief shipments in Bosnia-Herzegovina, NATO Secretary General Manfred Woerner said here Friday [7 January]. The North Atlantic Treaty Organisation agreed in August to launch air attacks on Bosnian Serbs if requested by the United Nations to break the siege of Sarajevo and other mainly Moslem communities. "The concept to which we agreed in August is still valid," Woerner told reporters three days before a NATO summit where France plans to make a new push for action on Bosnia amid increased shelling of Sarajevo. "I have no doubt that if we would be confronted with a request by UNPROFOR (the United Nations Protection Force) or the secretary general of the United Nations, NATO would be prepared to do what it promised to do," he said. Woerner also predicted the 16-member alliance would be ready to help implement any peace accord reached to end the 21-month-old conflict in the former Yugoslav republic. NATO has drafted plans to send a 50,000-strong force, half of it from the United States. But doubts have been raised whether Washington would contribute its share after its peacekeeping problems in Somalia and Haiti. "I think if really the chips are down and the implementation of a possible peace plan depends on NATO support, I think there is a good chance that the United States will participate," Woerner said. "But that is my own guess." Despite pressure by France, he did not think the Bosnian conflict would dominate the summit, which will take up such issues as ties to the former eastern bloc and strengthening NATO's European pillar. "This summit has as the major objective to prepare this alliance for the future, to set it on track even for the 21st century," Woerner said.
