FBIS4-65314 "drweu094_p_94001" FBIS-WEU-94-094 Daily Report 13 May 1994 GREECE Papoulias Views Lifting U.S. Embargo in Bosnia Papoulias Views Lifting U.S. Embargo in Bosnia NC1305131094 Athens Elliniki Radhiofonia Radio Network in Greek 1130 GMT 13 May 94 NC1305131094 Athens Elliniki Radhiofonia Radio Network Greek BFN [Text] The Serbian forces in Bosnia are escalating their attacks against the Muslim enclave of (Bihac) in western Bosnia while an interministerial conference is being held in Geneva aimed at ending the hostilities through political means. Participating in the conference are the foreign ministers of the United States, Russia, Britain, France, Germany, Greece, and Belgium as well as the international community mediators in the Bosnian issue. Their goal is to persuade the belligerent sides in Bosnia to return to the negotiating table. Greece is represented by Foreign Minister Karolos Papoulias in his capacity as president of the European Union Foreign Ministers Council. An ATHENS NEWS AGENCY dispatch from Geneva notes that the talks will open without any particular hopes and with the strong impression that there are substantive differences between the United States and France on charting a joint policy to impose a solution on the belligerent parties in Bosnia. The dispatch also stresses the difficulties that French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe had two days ago in persuading the U.S. leaders in Washington to exercise effective pressure on the Muslims in Bosnia. It should be stressed that the U.S. Senate decided last night on the unilateral lifting of the arms embargo on the Muslims in Bosnia that was imposed by the United Nations. Shortly before leaving for Geneva, Foreign Minister Papoulias responded to questions from correspondents. Among other things, Papoulias said: The troika supports the EU action plan. U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher has his own ideas. Unfortunately, I have been informed that the U.S. Senate decided to lift the arms embargo on the Muslims in Bosnia. I think this decision could complicate the situation.
