FBIS4-53097 "dreas095_a_94037" FBIS-EAS-94-095 Daily Report 13 May 1994 NORTHEAST ASIA Japan Nuclear Reactor Tubes Reportedly Clogged With Rust Nuclear Reactor Tubes Reportedly Clogged With Rust OW1705003894 Tokyo NHK General Television Network in Japanese 1000 GMT 13 May 94 OW1705003894 Tokyo NHK General Television Network Japanese BFN [Announcer-read report over video; from the "NHK News 7" program] [Text] Three years ago a tube clogged with rust broke in the No. 2 reactor of the Kansai Power Electric Company's Mihama nuclear power plant. An inhouse company report has found out that similar problems have occurred at six other nuclear plants. In the incident three years ago, one of the tubes in a steam generator at the Mihama No. 2 reactor broke and leaked a large amount of primary cooling water, used to cool fuel in the reactor. Investigators later found one of the tubes had broken because an antivibration bar had not been properly installed. They said that foreign objects, including rust, had accumulated in a small gap between a tube and the bar, which supported the tubes. The tube eventually became fixed and could not withstand vibration. NHK, which obtained a copy of the Kansai Electric Power Company's inhouse report, says after the accident investigators took samples from tubes at nine other pressurized water reactors, which are similar to the Mihama No. 2 reactor. They confirmed the tubes had become fixed because a gap between the tube and a bar in six of the reactors had become clogged. The report says that each of the 30 to 40 tubes that were checked at the Mihama No. 3 reactor and the No. 2 Ohi reactor, which are still in operation, were clogged with rust and dust and completely fixed. Kansai Electric officials say that even though the tubes were clogged with dust, they would not break like the one at the Mihama No. 2 reactor unless it was triggered by an accident. They say they intend to replace the steam generators, together with the tubes, over the next four years. Antinuclear groups, however, including citizens' group, say that the reactors should be closed down immediately.
