FBIS4-46133 "jptot022__l94042" JPRS-TOT-94-022-L JPRS Terrorism FOUO 23 May 1994 NEAR EAST/SOUTH ASIA REGIONAL AFFAIRS IDF Seizes `Terrorist' Leader al-Dirani; Hizballah Reaction IDF Seizes `Terrorist' Leader al-Dirani; Hizballah Reaction Iran Says `Retaliation' `Just' NC2705103394 Tehran KEYHAN in Persian 23 May 94 p 2 NC2705103394 Tehran KEYHAN Persian BFN [Mas'ud Khales commentary: "An Eye for an Eye"] [Excerpts] [passage omitted] The recent "kidnapping" is not the first such act by the Zionist regime; it will possibly not be the last. In view of the time at which this incident took place, there are some important points that should be stated and some lessons to be learned. [passage omitted] The most optimistic assessment of the silence by the West and international forums on Israel's "state terrorism" is that this silence stems from their confusion over the actions by the Zionists ruling occupied Palestine; and if their silence does not mean confirmation, they should prove this by their deeds. It seems a new opportunity has emerged for all the governments that are accused of terrorism to question the U.S. policy of double standards on terrorism. Although propounding this topic in international organizations will be confronted with America's veto as usual, it will be an effort by the accused to put forth a new interpretation of terrorism and its limits. [passage omitted] With this act, the Zionist regime showed that it has not given up its efforts to advance its aggressive objectives under any condition and that world public opinion and reaction is worth nothing to it. If this is so, then those whose territory is occupied by the enemy will be entitled to reserve the right to set limitations aside to defend themselves and to oust the enemy and to choose the time and the venue for their confrontation with the enemy. According to Hizballah, no part of Lebanon is safe for the Muslims. Under such circumstances, rendering every area insecure for the Zionists and their mentors within the framework of the policy of retaliation is a just act that should not be protested. Any protest should be aimed at a usurping government that supports terrorism and attaches no value to public opinion.
