FBIS3-37276 "drsov032bb_94001" FBIS-SOV-94-032 Document Type:Daily Report 16 February 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Yeltsin Greets Conference on Federation Issues LD1502120294 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1125 GMT 15 Feb 94 LD1502120294 Moscow ITAR-TASS Language: English Article Type:BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Lyudmila Yermakova] [Text] Moscow February 15 TASS -- The international conference "Russia's federal structure and the implementation of the principles of pluralistic democaracy, rule-of-law state and human rights" opened in Moscow on Tuesday. It has been organised with the participation of the Council of Europe. "The problems you are to discuss assume special importance at the present stage of the formation of Russian statehood the beginning to which has been set by the adoption of the new Constitution and election of the Federal Assembly. Every condition has now been created for the stable activity of state institutions and for Russia's democratic development, harmoniously combining the interests of the Federation and its regions", Russian President Boris Yeltsin said in a message of greetings to the conference. It is important "to complete the formation of the Federation's legislative structure, to ensure for the Federation's subjects genuine independence in dealing with matters in their jurisdiction, to adjust mechanisms of cooperation and interaction of local and central structures of power", the message says. "Stability and security in Russia and far beyond its limits largely depend on how effectively these problems are resolved in Russia. I hope Russia will be able fully to rely on the experience of democracies in coping with difficulties". The fundamental law of the country "includes the federal model envisaging the equality of subjects," said Boris Pastukhov, Russian deputy foreign minister, presiding over the conference. However, provisions of the Constitution are yet to be filled with contents of law. "We are not going to copy the experience of European states, but we should use everything positive in it", he said.
