FBIS4-11745 "drnes063ff_94001" FBIS-NES-94-063 Daily Report 31 Mar 1994 South Asian Regional Affairs Iranian Envoy Explains Stance on Kashmir Iranian Envoy Explains Stance on Kashmir LD3103143394 Tehran IRNA in English 1301 GMT 31 Mar 94 LD3103143394 Tehran IRNA English BFN [Text] New Delhi, March 31, IRNA -- Dispelling the doubt of various Kashmiri freedom struggle groups on the role Iran played in the events that led to the withdrawal of Pak-sponsored resolution on Kashmir at the recently concluded UN Human Rights Commission summit at Geneva, the Iranian ambassador to India, 'Ali Reza Sheykh 'Attar [name as received], has said these have resulted from the lack of a "correct, deep and comprehensive information of events". The ambassador's interview, originally given to IRNA, New Delhi, has today appeared in leading newspapers of the valley. On Iran's position on Kashmir, 'Attar says "his country believes in a lasting solution to the dispute fulfilling the aspiration of Kashmiri people". 'Attar dismisses the allegation that Iran took a pro-India stand in the interest of its commercial ties with that country as "misconceived". He states that "commercial ties with Pakistan are equally important to Iran. Moreover, Iran has never compromised its principles for its economic interests. Kashmiris are aware of this fact". Cautioning the people of Kashmir of the West's designs, the ambassador warns: "These powers do not stand for the well-being of Muslims. Therefore, they should not be given any excuse to establish their foothold in the region". "The West's intervention has never been in the interests of Muslims. Palestine, Somalia and Bosnia bear testimony to this", adds the ambassador. While holding the view that Iran's initiative at geneva proved "effective", the ambassador is quoted to have said "both India and Pakistan have appreciated it". The ambassador also says that the Iranian mediation came in the wake of the two countries' interest to sort out their differences over the resolution at the summit. Reposing confidecne in growing political awareness among the people of Kashmir, 'Attar concludes that now "the case of resolving the Kashmir tangle through negotiations among all sides has become stronger".
