FBIS4-14007 "drnes080dd_94002" FBIS-NES-94-080 Daily Report 20 Apr 1994 Palestinian Affairs Hamas Officials on Ties With Gaza-Jericho Authority Hamas Officials on Ties With Gaza-Jericho Authority NC2604084094 Cairo AL-AHRAM in Arabic 20 Apr 94 p 5 NC2604084094 Cairo AL-AHRAM Arabic BFN [Interview with Dr. 'Umar Salih Farwanah and Dr. Sa'ud al-Shawwa, identified as leaders of Hamas in Gaza, by Muhammad al-Hinnawi in Tel Aviv; date not given -- interviewees not identified in response] [Excerpt] [passage omitted] [Al-Hinnawi] How will you deal with the new Palestinian authority that will emerge in Gaza and Jericho? [Hamas] It will be a relationship of cooperation and sympathy so that we can rebuild the Palestinian house. But at the same time we will stress the Palestinian people's right to armed resistance because this was the only way to force the Israelis to start the Gaza-Jericho negotiations. [Al-Hinnawi] And where will the armed resistance take place? [Hamas] Beyond the boundaries of the new Palestinian entity and wherever the Israeli authority, army, and police exist. The Palestinian authority will therefore have no responsibility for these military operations because they will be carried out outside the self-rule areas. Gosh Qatif, for instance, is not part of the self-rule region. So it will be a target for our operations. This applies to the West Bank towns of Hebron, Nabulus, and others; they will be the venues of operations like those carried out in 'Afula, Hadera, Tel Aviv, and Yafo. [Al-Hinnawi] After these operations, will your elements flee to the self-rule areas and, consequently, create problems between the Palestinian authority and the Israeli Government? [Hamas] Those who carried out the latest suicide operations did not hide in Gaza or Jericho. The Israeli Army could not find them. Had the army known where they were it would have captured them. The torch of resistance must remain lit. This will make Israel feel that there is no use keeping the rest of the Arab territory. [Al-Hinnawi] Do you have links with the other Islamic parties in the Arab world? [Hamas] We must first make it clear that we are against all the terrorist operations that take place in Egypt in the name of the Islamic groups, such as killing innocent people, killing Christians, and thefts. We are for a rational and enlightened Islam that establishes genuine legitimacy. [Al-Hinnawi] So you are against the liquidations that are now taking place in Gaza, something that I saw with my own eyes? [Hamas] We cannot say there is a struggle and campaign of liquidation between Hamas and Fatah. Problems do appear occasionally but they are quickly solved. But those who are proven to be enemy agents tell a different story.
