FBIS3-29871 "dreas036_d_94003" FBIS-EAS-94-036 Document Type:Daily Report 23 Feb 1994 South Korea DPRK, U.S. Delegates Comment SK2302014994 Seoul YONHAP in English 0142 GMT 23 Feb 94 SK2302014994 Seoul YONHAP Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] New York, Feb. 22 (YONHAP) -- North Korea and the United States met at the United Nations headquarters on Tuesday to discuss holding a third round of high-level talks and nuclear inspections by the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). After the working-level contact, North Korean representative Ho Chong said it would resume one and a half hours later, but his U.S. counterpart Tom Hubbard was uncertain if they would meet again the same day. Ho Chong, deputy chief of the North Korean mission to the United Nations, led his country's delegation while Hubbard, U.S. deputy assistant secretary of state for Asian and Pacific affairs, headed the American team. Hubbard said he hoped the contact would resume, adding that issuing visas to the IAEA inspectors was yet to be worked out by North Korea and the nuclear watchdog. Hubbard said he urged North Korea to allow nuclear inspections as soon as possible, which means Pyongyang should issue visas for the inspection team. He said the issuance of visas was unlikely to be a big problem. Apart from the visa issue, the two sides held serious discussions on the future direction of U.S.-North Korean dialogue, according to Hubbard. He said that holding the third round of high-level talks between Washington and Pyongyang depends on whether or not the IAEA is allowed to inspect North Korea's nuclear sites. He added that the United States would continue to strive for the high-level talks, but said unsolved problems remained. Ho, for his part, said he must discuss something with his home government in Pyongyang. C. Kenneth Quinones, North Korea desk officer at the U.S. State Department, accompanied Hubbard while Han Song-yol, councilor at the North Korean mission to the United Nations, attended with Ho.
