FBIS3-3660 "drchi055ka_94001" FBIS-CHI-94-005 Document Type:Daily Report 19 Mar 1994 NATIONAL AFFAIRS Delegates Seek Greater NPC Power, PLA Control HK1903053794 Hong Kong SOUTH CHINA MORNING POST in English 19 Mar 94 p 8 HK1903053794 Hong Kong SOUTH CHINA MORNING POST Language: English Article Type:BFN [By Chris Yeung and Linda Choy in Beijing] [Text] The People's Liberation Army (PLA) should come under the supervision of parliament to avoid abuses of power, an NPC meeting was told yesterday. Citing abuses by the Communist Party-controlled troops, vice-chairman of the Guangzhou Municipal People's Congress Yao Jiahua said lack of supervision over the PLA might lead to corruption and malpractice. The role and function of the NPC and the development of a legal system in China dominated the congress yesterday. Some deputies were at a loss as to what contribution they could make in addition to joining the annual session in Beijng and making one inspection tour of the regions. Mr Yao said: "The lack of supervision over the PLA has created some malpractices. In some cases, the PLA has competed with people for profits by joining businesses. The troops' respect for the law is also weak. There have been a lot of rumours about the PLA taking part in smuggling and official profiteering activities. The PLA is not living in a vacuum. It is vulnerable to corruption and should be put under the supervision of the NPC," Mr Yao said. Chairman of the Guangdong People's Provincial People's Congress Lin Ruo said measures should be implemented to ensure the rule of law. "Although the NPC has passed many pieces of legislation during the past year, they were not executed at local levels, where officials simply rule according to their own will," he said. He was joined by another Guangdong delegate, Li Weixin, who added that the rule of law in China had been hindered by the lack of legal provision for lawyers. "Without legal protection, it is very difficult for lawyers to carry out investigations and argue for defendants in court," he said. Eleven drafts have been made of the Lawyers Act since work on it began in 1982. Mr Li called on the Government to speed up work on the Lawyers Act to ensure proper protection for defendants in court. Complaining of the low efficiency of the NPC, a Liaoning provincial delegate said the 13-day session could be further shortened if sufficient preparations were made, such as sending government reports to delegates for study before the meeting. Li Jin, a vice-chairman of the Liaoyang Municipal People's Congress, said the work of the NPC Standing Committee should be improved. "We shouldn't merely attend the annual meeting and join an inspection tour just to be lectured on how good the national situation is," he said.
