FBIS4-18854 "drweu070__a94007" FBIS-WEU-94-070-A Daily Report 12 April 1994 ANNEX Inter-European Affairs FRG's Waigel Calls For Growth Concept FRG's Waigel Calls For Growth Concept AU0804135494 Hamburg DPA in German 0915 GMT 8 Apr 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY AU0804135494 Hamburg DPA German BFN [Text] Athens (DPA) -- Finance Minister Theo Waigel has called for a single concept for creating "lasting growth and employment dynamism" in the European Union [EU]. According to members of delegations at the meeting with his EU counterparts in Athens on Friday [8 April], Waigel said he supported the strategy paper that was presented by the European Commission, the so-called white paper. However, he sees a danger that the important impulses in terms of economic policy that are contained in the document "threaten to fall apart." Waigel warned that a policy to secure growth and employment must not only concentrate on measures related to infrastructure. The extension of the trans-European networks -- at the level of transport, telecommunications, and energy--are important, but it is not sufficient yet. In concrete terms, Waigel requested that the growth perspectives be urgently improved and the burden on enterprises as a result of over regulation be reduced. Wage policy to secure employment must contribute to this objective. The efficiency and dynamism of the economy continue to meet too many obstacles, particularly excessive and ever more complicated regulations. Waigel suggested that a deregulation group be established at the EU level to reduce bureaucracy. Such a group should thin out EU laws and free them of "over regulation that obstructs investment." In Athens, the finance ministers also wanted to discuss the controversial funding of growth programs for the economy in the Union. The Twelve and the European Commission are at odds whether parts of the equivalent of almost 39 billion German marks, which have been earmarked for investments into the trans-European networks, should also be financed via credits. In addition, the president of the European Monetary Institute (EMI, Frankfurt), Alexandre Lamfalussy, wanted to brief the group of ministers on the efforts to establish the newly created institute and recent developments in the European Monetary System.
