FBIS4-21068 "jptdd015__l94029" JPRS-TDD-94-015-L JPRS Narcotics 5 April 1994 LATIN AMERICA EL SALVADOR Autopsy Reportedly Finds Traces of Drugs in Dead U.S. Officer Autopsy Reportedly Finds Traces of Drugs in Dead U.S. Officer PA0504042394 San Salvador Canal Doce Television in Spanish 0300 GMT 5 Apr 94 PA0504042394 San Salvador Canal Doce Television Spanish BFN [From the "Up-to-Date" newscast] [Text] The U.S. military man who died while playing with a hand grenade had taken three types of drugs, an autopsy has revealed. Dr. Juan Mateo Llort, director of the Forensic Medicine Institute, has confirmed that a toxicological examination on the body of U.S. Lieutenant Colonel Julio Ramon Rivera, who died early Sunday, reveals he was under the influence of three illegal drugs when he pulled the pin on the grenade that killed him and wounded four other people. Based on this conclusion, Dr. Llort will ask the U.S. Embassy in El Salvador to perform drug tests on all Embassy officials. Dr. Llort said Rivera died from multiple trauma caused by the explosion of the grenade, which he handled recklessly. [Begin Llort recording] Only a person under the influence of drugs could have played with a live grenade, thinking it was a toy. The three drugs found were 25 nanograms of marijuana, 276 nanograms of methamphetamine, and 440 nanograms of phenobarbital--a considerable quantity. [end recording] The official U.S. Embassy report says Lt. Col. Rivera had gone to the National Civilian Police in the Zacamil neighborhood to meet his bodyguards who were being released. [Begin recording] [unidentified speaker] He was meeting some of his bodyguards. That is when he received the grenade, which exploded. [Dr. Llort] Routine toxicological tests should be performed on these kinds of people, who should be setting an example for the rest of the country. [end recording] Lt. Col. Rivera was second in command of the U.S. military advisers who have been in the country for the past two years. His body was flown in a C-130 plane to Puerto Rico, where he resided.
