FBIS4-50766 "drchi099_b_94002" FBIS-CHI-94-099 Daily Report 22 May 1994 United States & Canada Rift Over MFN Would Be for `Next Generation' To Solve Rift Over MFN Would Be for `Next Generation' To Solve HK2205052294 Hong Kong TA KUNG PAO in Chinese 22 May 94 p 2 HK2205052294 Hong Kong TA KUNG PAO Chinese BFN [Report by staff reporter Teng Yen-erh (6772 1750 0334): "Vice Minister of State Economic and Trade Commission Yu Xiaosong Expresses Optimism About Extension of MFN Status"] [Text] Beijing, 21 May (TA KUNG PAO) -- Yu Xiaosong, vice minister of China's State Economic and Trade Commission, said today that he is optimistic about the extension by the United States of most-favored-nation [MFN] status for China. In reply to a reporter's question about the U.S. extension of MFN status for China, Yu Xiaosong -- who was attending a Beijing-Hong Kong economy and trade luncheon meeting -- said today that he was optimistic about the extension. Even if the MFN status is revoked this year, it will have to be restored next year. After all, Sino- U.S. relations are an important part of world relations, he said, and if Sino-U.S. relations come to a deadlock, the rift will have to be mended by the politicians of the next generation, since it will not be easy for this generation to do so. Yu Xiaosong stressed that a deadlock, first of all, would be unfavorable to the United States. Sino-U.S. relations cannot come to a deadlock. Whichever side causes the deadlock will have to bear the historical responsibility, and the politicians of that side will have to undertake the mission to mend the rift. Yu recalled that there were no ties between China and the United States in 1972, when former U.S. President Nixon and former U.S. Secretary of State Kissinger paid their visit to China. In addition, China and the United States had been at war with each other, but at that time both sides felt the need to normalize relations between them. Then why should something be done to deadlock the relations today? he asked. He stressed that China, for its part, does not want the relations to come to a deadlock, but some people in the United States do intend to cause a deadlock. He said many Americans and politicians do not know about China, so it is necessary to make more efforts to convince them and to explain the situation to them. He said China should have been granted permanent MFN status. China now has met all the requirements set out by the United States in this regard, but the United States wants to add some extra requirements, which are not provided for by U.S. law.
