FBIS3-7479 "dreas060_q_94002" FBIS-EAS-94-060 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Mar 1994 AUSTRALASIA Papua New Guinea Bougainville Rebels Kill 17 People in Ambush BK2503134794 Melbourne Radio Australia in English 0830 GMT 25 Mar 94 BK2503134794 Melbourne Radio Australia Language: English Article Type:BFN [From the "International Report" program] [Excerpt] The Papua New Guinea [PNG] Army has sent reinforcements onto the main island of Bougainville where 17 people were massacred in a rebel ambush on Wednesday [23 March]. Among those killed was a six-year-old girl. Richard Pilferman earlier today spoke to PNG correspondent Sean Dorney, who is in Madang with the business delegation: [Begin recording] [Pilferman] According to reports that have come out of Buin in southern Bougainville, there were two truckloads of people with military escorts and the resistance fighter escorts heading down from the Tabago Care Center, which is basically a refugee camp, to the coast to pick up food supplies, and they were ambushed as they passed through a village on the road. According to these reports, they were fired on from all sides and most of the dead -- there are 13 people who've been fighting against the BRA [Bougainville Revolutionary Army] -- 12 of those members of the resistance forces and one Papua New Guinea soldier. Now the media can't get into Bougainville, knowing the danger of traveling the country with the Queensland investment delegation, and I believe that last night the Papua New Guinea police minister told the delegates the Bougainville crisis was all but over. It would appear that that's not quite true. [Dorney] The government has been trying to believe that it is all but over and that's what they've been telling everyone for the last few months. In fact, Mr. Wingti on his trip to Australia gave a similar story to Bob Hawke. Six months ago, the government did have the Bougainville rebels pretty well contained in a central Bougainville area in the mountains there. But the pressure's been let off and in recent weeks we've seen a real upsurge in rebel activity on our part of the mainland, in fact, the main road down the east coast now is not safe from Buka right through to (Lomahi,) which is where military headquarters are. For the situation has tumbled well out of control in recent weeks, and the government is going to have to take it very seriously now because there is trouble blowing up in areas that previously were considered quite safe. [passage omitted] [end recording]
