FBIS4-59521 "drnes094_j_94013" FBIS-NES-94-094 Daily Report 15 May 1994 ARABIAN PENINSULA Yemen Roundup of 13-16 May Clashes in North, South Roundup of 13-16 May Clashes in North, South Sanaa Troops Advance in All Sectors JN1505052994 Sanaa Yemeni Republic Radio Network in Arabic 0430 GMT 15 May 94 JN1505052994 Sanaa Yemeni Republic Radio Network Arabic BFN [Statement by Defense Ministry "responsible source"; date not given] [Text] With support from God, the heroes of the brave Armed Forces--the forces defending unity, consolidating constitutional legitimacy, and maintaining democratic and development achievements--continue their heroic, sacred mission of confronting the forces of rebellion, apostasy, secession, and plotting against unity. In all axes and sectors, our forces are waging a decisive confrontation against the dens of the separatist elements in the Socialist Party, inflicting heavy losses on the helpless forces' weapons and military hardware. They advanced on the al-'Anad-al-Hawtah and the al-Dali'-al-'Anad sectors, pounding the fortifications in front of the al-'Anad base. Our troops have gone past Jawl Madram, which is located in front of the al-'Anad base. Meanwhile, the valiant, brave Armed Forces on the southwestern axis managed to advance dozens of kilometers from the Kharaz area eastward, heading toward the Salah-al-Din camp. They seized large quantities of hardware, vehicles, equipment, and a sea radar station. The Air Force aircraft of the valiant Armed Forces managed to mount a successful attacks on a column of vehicles and equipment in the (al-Naqabah) area, the Shabwah Governorate, assembled by the apostate, secessionist forces from both the Hadhramaut and Shabwah Governorates. The aircraft returned safely to base. The units of our Armed Forces in all axes and sectors received many of officers, noncommissioned officers, and soldiers who set themselves free from the grip and domination of the apostate, secessionist forces, joining the units of the forces of unity, democracy, and constitutional legitimacy, declaring their rejection of the secessionist, conspiratorial scheme and joining the units of our Armed and Security Forces to confront the enemies of the people, unity, democracy, and constitutional legitimacy. They stressed their condemnation of the bloody massacres that were planned and perpetrated by the secessionist gang in the Socialist Party.
