FBIS3-29447 "dreas034__a94008" FBIS-EAS-94-034-A Document Type:Daily Report 18 February 1994 ANNEX Japan Voluntary Targets Suggested To Reduce Surplus OW1802063494 Tokyo Nikkei Telecom Database in Japanese 18 Feb 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY OW1802063494 Tokyo Nikkei Telecom Database Language: Japanese Article Type:BFN [From NIHON KEIZAI SHIMBUN 18 February Morning Edition] [Text] Discussing what Japan should do in view of the breakdown in the Japan-U.S. economic framework talks, a senior Ministry of International Trade and Industry [MITI] official said on 17 February: "We should review and augment the Five Year Economic Plan for a Better Quality of Life and the 430 trillion yen plan for public investment by this fall, and clarify our position from the next fiscal year." He indicated that Japan should clearly manifest its efforts to reduce the trade surplus through the expansion of domestic demand in order to win the understanding of the United States. The official also touched on the ratio of the current accounts surplus to GNP (2.8 percent) in the government's economic forecast for fiscal 1994, saying: "If we can come up with a figure for the ratio of the surplus to GNP in the process of reviewing the economic programs, we will be able to predict the course of the Japanese economy from fiscal 1995." He, in effect, suggested that Japan should draw up a voluntary plan for reducing the current accounts surplus. This was the first time a senior government official has referred to the need to set a macroeconomic target. Such a remark seemed to represent an effort to meet U.S. expectations by setting a "voluntary target" at the macroeconomic level through the inclusion of a ratio for current accounts surplus in Japanese economic plans. However, the senior official stressed that this ratio "is absolutely a voluntary figure to be shown to the people; it is not a target to fulfill for the United States." Last July, at the beginning of the framework talks, the United States demanded the setting of macroeconomic numerical targets, such as the ratio of current accounts surplus, but Japan refused. This eventually led to an agreement to draw up "objective criteria" in specific sectors, such as automobiles and auto parts, and so forth.
