FBIS4-31588 "dreeu113_y_94006" FBIS-EEU-94-113 Daily Report 10 Jun 1994 YUGOSLAVIA Federal Sainovic on Strategies To Cut Budget Deficit Sainovic on Strategies To Cut Budget Deficit AU1006205994 Belgrade RTB Television Network in Serbo-Croatian 1730 GMT 10 Jun 94 AU1006205994 Belgrade RTB Television Network Serbo-Croatian BFN [Interview with Nikola Sainovic, Federal Republic of Yugoslavia deputy prime minister, by Dusko Petrovic; place and date not given -- recorded] [Text] [Studio announcer] The decreasing of public expenditure and primarily the decreasing of the deficit in the federal and republican budgets is an extremely important task. The further successful realization of the program of monetary reconstruction and the country's economic recovery greatly depends on it. It is well-known that the Serbian Government has already undertaken concrete measures and activities in order to further decrease the deficit in the republic's coffers and to ensure that it is reimbursed only from real sources. What the Federal Government plans to do in this respect is the question that DNEVNIK put to Deputy Premier Nikola Sainovic. [Sainovic] We knew from the start that this was going to be a difficult and very responsible task, but we planned in the program to accomplish within six months something that this state could not accomplish for years and that is to annul the budget deficit. The results accomplished so far prove that this task can be accomplished. The National Bank has already lent both the republican and federal budgets less than was planned in the program, and as things stand now, I am convinced that we are going to accomplish this task regardless of all the difficulties that accompany it. In the same way that the economy -- in conditions of a real economy -- is expected to produce, market, and live only on the results of its work, the federation and the republics must get along on the funds available, and we are going to accomplish this. [Petrovic] This assumes the ongoing financing of the federal state and the federal units from real sources. Will the federal state in July or August perhaps convert to borrowing money on the money market and other sources? [Sainovic] The basic thing is that in the second half of the year, we are going to convert to financing only from real sources, and the state should ideally finance itself from its primary sources. Since it is not possible to decrease the deficit solely by saving -- all the existing consumers cutting expenses, monitoring every penny, and so forth -- the Federal Government will initiate the implementation of a concept of reorganization of the federal administration, which will be a program that we have never had so far, not since the founding of this federal state. [Petrovic] Deputy Prime Minister, we can soon expect to see a more efficient and modern federal state, more appropriate to the conditions we are living under, the needs of the economy and the citizens? [Sainovic] On the basis of the concept that has been prepared, we are going to implement such a reorganization of the federal administration that it will be possible to precisely pinpoint the responsibility of each ministry or an individual part of it; there will be no great number of organizational units in which responsibility and efficiency will be lost; there will be fewer employees, the entire administration will fit into one building -- the palace of the Federal Executive Council, and I am convinced that this will represent the federal administration's significant contribution to the program's realization. [Petrovic] Thank you very much. [Sainovic] Thank you.
