FBIS4-47485 "jpust013___94038" JPRS-UST-94-013 JPRS Science & Technology Central Eurasia 23 June 1994 PHYSICS AND MATHEMATICS Environment Signatures and Simulation of Inputs to Environment Signatures and Simulation of Inputs to Optoelectronic Remote Observation Systems 947J0027B St. Petersburg OPTICHESKIY ZHURNAL in Russian No. 9, Sep. 93 (manuscript received 27 Apr 93) pp. 9-11 947J0027B St. Petersburg OPTICHESKIY ZHURNAL Russian CSO [Article by V. L. Filippov, doctor of physical and mathematical sciences; UDC 551.591:[681.78:629.7.05] [Abstract] Work done at the Institute of Optophysical Research on the development of databases and mathematical models essential for reliable use of optoelectronic instruments carried by spacecraft or aircraft and for the reliable interpretation of the registered data is described. The information (measurement conditions, meteorological and actinometric data) incorporated in these databases is listed. The various programs written for use with these databases are given: for readout and conversion of the registered data from instruments having different forms of output signals; for referencing output signals to meteorological data; for data storage, correction and accumulation; for issuance of data summaries upon interrogation; for output of summarized tables or summaries of stored information for given spectral ranges or geographic regions. Such databases have been used in systems for simulating real conditions with allowance for the regional peculiarities of optical weather by applying synthesis principles. Work has been done on mathematical simulation of complex three-dimensional spatially extended scenes; the different stages in such image modeling are outlined. Mathematical models of this type make it possible to generate three-dimensional brightness images of different size; to determine shadows from solar coordinates and thereby to make adequate allowance for the distribution of terrain illumination; to transform the synthesized images to any observation conditions. In essence, this article represents a summarization of the materials covered in the listed bibliography and serves as an introduction to certain articles in this issue of the journal. References 14: 13 Russian, 1 Western.
