FBIS4-34153 "drlat116_c_94002" FBIS-LAT-94-116 Daily Report 14 Jun 1994 MEXICO Official Rejects U.S. Meddling in Domestic Matters Official Rejects U.S. Meddling in Domestic Matters PA1506132494 Mexico City UNOMASUNO in Spanish 14 Jun 94 p 10 PA1506132494 Mexico City UNOMASUNO Spanish BFN [Article by Leticia Robles de la Rosa] [Text] Mexico will not allow the United States to meddle in domestic matters, unless it involves narcotics and only through the Drug Enforcement Agency, to prevent our sovereignty from being violated, Leandro Arellano, director general of Commercial Relations for Europe, Africa, Asia, and the Pacific of the Foreign Relations Secretariat, has stated. He said our country's world image has not deteriorated, despite recent incidents of violence. The Mexican Government has enough maturity to resolve its domestic problems without anyone's help. It is not necessary, therefore, for the United States to interfere to end the acts of violence we have experienced. He stated the above during a brief interview after participating in the 19th international spring colloquium where he said that, although Mexico is renowned internationally today as an intermediate and very dynamic economy, the social cost of economic reforms has been considerable because the number of poor people has increased, which represents a pending and a priority debt. He added that the plight of poverty cannot be resolved if the distribution of income is not modified and if a tax reform and a wage policy adjustment are not carried out, which will permit the benefits of the country's growth to not further increase the gap between the wealthy and poor sectors. He also said that financial discipline, monetary prudence, economic openness, market development, and concentration of the state only on strategic areas are part of the guidelines that must be followed in the near future and whose results will be evident in the coming years. "As a result of these efforts, Mexico is renowned internationally today as a very dynamic intermediate economy," he stated. Leandro Arellano said that sharing a common border of over 3,000 km with the biggest military power on the planet and the principal promoter of some of the situations that reflect our reality in the nineties, "obliges countries such as ours to make diversification the key element of our international strategy."
