FBIS3-37884 "drsov037_d_94003" FBIS-SOV-94-037 Document Type:Daily Report 24 Feb 1994 Regional Affairs Shumeyko on Situation in Caucasus, Tatarstan Treaty LD2302203194 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service in Russian 1506 GMT 23 Feb 94 LD2302203194 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [By ITAR-TASS parliamentary correspondent Lyudmila Yermakova] [Text] Moscow, 23 Feb -- Vladimir Shumeyko, the chairman of the Federation Council, expressed a suggestion that this year a treaty may be signed between the Russian Federation and Chechnya, which is similar to the one with Tatarstan. Answering journalists' questions at today's "round table" on the situation in the Caucasus, he reported that the upper chamber of the parliament plans to hold parliamentary hearings in connection with the situation in the Caucasus, and all the sides will be invited there. "We want to hear all points of view, to weigh them up and to find our position," he noted. According to the speaker, the issue of mutual relations between North Ossetia and Ingushetiya is complex, it touches not just on their interests, but also the problems of settling the situation in neighboring regions, in particular in South Ossetia and Georgia. As to Chechnya, this problem is "extremely complex and delicate." According to Vladimir Shumeyko, one needs to take into consideration the fact that the Chechen Republic has been existing for two years, and it has a publicly elected president. Now, he reported, a process is being observed, when the people are looking for ways out of the situation which has been formed. Not everyone believes that Chechnya should exist outside Russia. He also reported that the republic has public movements and a Provisional Council of the Chechen Republic that aim at resolving the issue of the coexistence of Chechnya and the Russian Federation. After the treaty with Tatarstan is concluded, one should focus all efforts on resolving the issue with Chechnya, the parliamentarian stressed. Russia stands only to gain from signing a treaty with Chechnya." Commenting on the treaty with Tatarstan, Vladimir Shumeyko noted that he "does not see a threat in it." He hopes that in March elections will be held in Tatarstan, and two deputies will join the Federation Council. The treaty with Tatarstan "is executed in strict agreement with the Russian Constitution and the Federation Treaty," he stressed. The speaker warned against the opinion that "if a treaty is being concluded with a member of the Federation, then that member is leaving the Federation." "All it means is that new relations are being formed within the Federation at a different level", he concluded.
