FBIS4-34397 "drlat118_o_94014" FBIS-LAT-94-118 Daily Report 19 Jun 1994 Colombia Guerrillas Kidnap Electoral Officials Guerrillas Kidnap Electoral Officials PA1906180894 Mexico City NOTIMEX in Spanish 1625 GMT 19 Jun 94 PA1906180894 Mexico City NOTIMEX Spanish BFN [Text] Santa Fe de Bogota, 19 Jun (NOTIMEX) -- Within the framework of the presidential elections, Colombian guerrillas have kidnapped 10 persons, including electoral delegates and voting officers, in northeastern part of the country, authorities reported today. Alvaro Dagon, government secretary in the Santander Department, disclosed that the officials were kidnapped by rebel units when they were getting ready to set up the voting table in the Garcia Rovira Province. Colombians today will elect President Cesar Gaviria's successor, either Ernesto Samper of the Liberal Party or Andres Pastrana of the New Democratic Force. Samper and Pastrana were the candidates who obtained the highest number of votes in the 29 May elections; however, neither obtained the 50 percent of the vote required for victory in the first round. The source reported that among those kidnapped is the police inspector of "El Cerrito" Municipality, which is near the site of the kidnapping, approximately 460 km from Santa Fe de Bogota. Despite the kidnappings, the local authorities guaranteed that the elections will take place in a normal fashion, saying that the officials had been replaced this morning. In addition, 15 other electoral delegates resigned from their posts at "Santa Rosa de Simiti" Municipality in the northern part of the country in light of the death threats received from the Simon Bolivar guerrilla group, the report stated. Meanwhile, at "Legrija" Municipality in the northern Santander Department the rebels engaged in a confrontation with government troops. One guerrilla died, the source reported. Another adverse action was registered in Medellin, the second most important city in the nation, where rebel units set off several home-made bombs causing no victims, although considerable damage was reported.
