FBIS4-49829 "drchi091_l_94001" FBIS-CHI-94-091 Daily Report 11 May 1994 Science & Technology Nuclear Safety `Meets International Standards' Nuclear Safety `Meets International Standards' HK1105052694 Beijing CHINA DAILY in English 11 May 94 p 1 HK1105052694 Beijing CHINA DAILY English BFN [By Liu Weiling: "China's Nuclear System Meets World Standards"] [Text] China's nuclear regulatory system meets international standards, a review team announced on Monday after a two-week inspection. The study was the first conducted on China's nuclear plants by an international group. It inspected units and offered suggestions including improving backup systems and expanding the role of the China National Safety Administration (NNSA), the nuclear industry's independent regulatory body. NNSA, which invited the team from the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), was set up in 1984 to oversee the structure, organization, regulations, safety review, licensing and commissioning of nuclear plants . The international team said the NNSA provides a good model for countries developing nuclear programmes. "The licensing and review process employed at the Daya Bay and Qinshan units conforms with international practice," said Morris Rosen, IAEA's assistant director general. Huang Qitao, director general of NNSA, said the group's visit demonstrates the importance the government is giving to nuclear safety. He said the evaluation also helped China locate shortcomings in its programme and gain advice from overseas experts. "This will help ensure the safe operation of nuclear installations in China and protect the public and the environment," Huang said. The review commission said the NNSA should pay more attention to operational experience feedback systems in accident prevention. Such systems, common worldwide, can identify problems ahead of time, thus allowing preventive measures to be taken. The group also said the NNSA should take a more active role in nuclear industry decisions and provide advice to provincial governments and the National Nuclear Accident Emergency Committee. Two nuclear plants have gone into operation the past two years: one at Daya Bay in Shenzhen and another in Qinshan, Zhejiang Province. Two more 600,000 kilowatt units have been authorized for Qinshan and additional units are also planned for Daya Bay. The areas reviewed included nuclear safety legislation, the role and responsibility of the regulatory body, regulations and guides, the licensing process, applicant requirements, inspection and enforcement, and emergency preparations.
