FBIS3-36194 "drsov023_a_94016" FBIS-SOV-94-023 Document Type:Daily Report 3 Feb 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Latest Talks Open PM0202131394 Moscow KRASNAYA ZVEZDA in Russian 2 Feb 94 p 3 PM0202131394 Moscow KRASNAYA ZVEZDA Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Report by Sergey Knyazkov: "Everything Hangs on Signing a Fundamental Treaty. Russia Is Linking This Closely with Schedule for Withdrawing Its Troops from Estonia"] [Text] The latest round of talks between Estonia and Russia began outside Moscow yesterday. The agenda included the traditional package of questions regarding troop withdrawal and problems to do with borders and the humanitarian, legal, and economic aspects of cooperation. For the first time, the delegation from the Republic of Estonia will be headed at the talks by Reino Reinart, chief of the Department for International Organizations and Security at the republic's Foreign Ministry, who has been given the diplomatic rank of ambassador. It is well known that Juri Luik, the former head of the Estonian delegation, has been appointed Estonian foreign minister. In the opinion of Estonian Prime Minister Mart Laar, the priority issue at these talks remains the fastest possible withdrawal of Russian troops from Estonian territory. The Estonian side hopes that Russia will submit a written schedule for withdrawing its troops. Laar believes that once this is done, the republic will have the opportunity to reach agreement with Russia as soon as possible on creating conditions for implementing the schedule, and "by 31 August the withdrawal of Russian troops from Estonia will be complete." On the eve of the talks, Vladimir Tsivinskiy, secretary to the Russian delegation at the talks with Estonia, noted in an interview with your KRASNAYA ZVEZDA correspondent that there are plans to submit a schedule for withdrawing troops. At the same time, Tsivinskiy stressed, this act directly depends on a number of factors, the most important of which is the willingness of the two sides to sign a fundamental treaty on the withdrawal of Russian troops from Estonia.
