FBIS4-56407 "drlat086__a94016" FBIS-LAT-94-086-A Daily Report 3 May 1994 ANNEX Cuba Foreign Ministry Official: U.S. Impedes Robaina Visit Foreign Ministry Official: U.S. Impedes Robaina Visit PA0405024094 Havana PRENSA LATINA in Spanish 2255 GMT 3 May 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY PA0405024094 Havana PRENSA LATINA Spanish BFN [Text] Havana, 3 May (PL) -- The U.S. Government has impeded Cuban Foreign Ministger Roberto Robaina from participating in a panel discussion organized by a U.S. media company by not granting him the necessary visa on time. Robaina was invited to visit the city of Atlanta by Turner Broadcasting Corporation [TBS], the consortium that operates CNN. The corporation invited Robaina to take part in the seminar it organizes annually. The seminar is attended by representatives of clients worldwide. This information was confirmed to PRENSA LATINA by Cuban Foreign Ministry spokesman Miguel Alfonso, who explained that Robaina had planned to speak about the situation in his country. Alfonso noted that the list of guests included UN Secretary General Butrus Butrus-Ghali and Russian Foreign Minister Andrey Kozyrev. The journalistic event began on 1 May. Robaina should have traveled on 29 April. Because of this, he requested the visa from the U.S. Interests Section in Cuba 25 [word indistinct] earlier. TBS executives also contacted the U.S. State Department about this matter. Alfonso said, however, time went by without news on the granting of any visa, and on 28 April, faced with the impossibility of travel caused by the delay and a lack of explanation from Washington, the Cuban Foreign Ministry had to withdraw its passports from the U.S. Interests Section. Curiously, the spokesman noted, the next day, in Washington, the U.S. Secret Service went to the Cuban Interests Section inquiring about bilateral cooperation to guarantee Robaina's personal security during his stay in U.S. territory. There was never any answer to the visa request and no information was given to Cuba regarding a situation that prevented the Cuban foreign minister from attending a meeting to which he had been invited. Alfonso said the U.S. Government's position represents a continuation of a policy through which it denies the principles of freedom of expression it claims to defend.
