FBIS3-59488 "jpeer003__s94014" JPRS-EER-94-103-S Document Type:JPRS Document Title:East Europe SUPPLEMENT 27 January 1994 POLAND Council of Ministers Office Chief Strak Profiled 94P20221B Poznan WPROST in Polish No 51, 19 Dec 93 p 6 94P20221B Poznan WPROST Language: Polish Article Type:CSO [Unattributed article under the rubric "People": "Michal Strak"] [Text] "The expression `putting in order' and not `reform' better describes what we want to do," said Minister Michal Strak, chief of the Office of the Council of Ministers, in response to a question on changes proposed in the functioning of the public administration. He called drafts proposed by the previous government "historical documents," not suitable for implementation. He also provided information on the demand of the coalition parties for the dismissal of voivodes in a number of voivodships, arguing that, in France, after each parliamentary election, 60 percent of the prefects are changed. To this, opposition politicians stated derisively in the halls that the new government wants to introduce its own "apolitical" people into the administration. The 47-year-old Michal Strak is a political scientist and Polish philologist by education. During the 1970's, he worked as a journalist at WIES WSPOLCZESNA and ZIELONY SZTANDAR [both newspapers dealing with rural and agricultural issues], and later in the Ministry of Culture and Art. Beginning in 1989, for three years he was the director of the Cabinet of the minister of state at the Chancellery of President Wojciech Jaruzelski. With Lech Walesa's presidency, he was dismissed from that position by Jaroslaw Kaczynski. Michal Strak began his political career in the Rural Youth Union [ZMK]. He became a member of the United Peasant Party [ZSL] in 1971 [predecessor of the PSL (Polish Peasant Party)]. He currently serves as deputy secretary of the Chief Executive Committee of the PSL. He is considered to be the major ideologist of the PSL and is the closest colleague and adviser of Prime Minister Waldemar Pawlak. Following his advice, Democratic Left Alliance [SLD] deputies voted in favor of a vote of no-confidence for the government of Hanna Suchocka [referring to the December 1993 parliamentary refusal to grant absolutorium to the Olszewski and Suchocka governments]. Strak is married and has two children.
