FBIS4-68131 "jptot020__l94053" JPRS-TOT-94-020-L JPRS Terrorism FOUO 9 May 1994 NEAR EAST/SOUTH ASIA PAKISTAN Troops Arrest Two `Indian Terrorists' in Azad Kashmir Troops Arrest Two `Indian Terrorists' in Azad Kashmir BK0905145594 Islamabad PTV Television Network in English 1400 GMT 9 May 94 BK0905145594 Islamabad PTV Television Network English BFN [Text] Two Indian terrorists have been apprehended by Pakistani troops after they crossed the Line of Control in Nikyal subsector of Azad Kashmir on the night of 4th and 5th of this month. Over 18 kg of explosives along with accessories and two tubes of rocket launchers have also been recovered from the saboteurs. According to preliminary investigations, the terrorists -- Mohammad Yusuf, son of Sain Mohammad; and Mohammad, son of Raj Mohammad -- belong to village (Neka Panchgaran) of Indian-held Kashmir. During interrogation, it has transpired that the two saboteurs received training in handling of explosives at a Gurkha Rifle unit of the Indian Army. They were roped in by one RAW [Research and Analysis Wing] agent, Havaldar [petty military officer] Sharma, through coercion. They were also promised that handsome amount will be paid to them on return with a warning that if they refused to carry out the orders, they would be shot dead and declared intruders. Prior to the agents' entry into Nikyal subsector of Kotli, the Indian troops deployed near the Line of Control started heavy firing on the flanks first to divert the attention of the Pakistani troops, and also intimidate local population so that the terrorists could enter undetected. But this commonly used tactic of Indians aroused suspicion and Pakistani troops became extra vigilant. As the two terrorists penetrated into Azad Kashmir area, they were nabbed by a local patrol. Both the agents have confessed that they have been visiting various places in Azad Kashmir and Pakistan in the past for the purpose of sabotage. The terrorists have also confessed that a large number of educated Kashmiri youth are being imparted terrorism training by Indian soldiers under threat of maltreatment.
