FBIS3-7027 "dreas057_c_94005" FBIS-EAS-94-057 Document Type:Daily Report 24 Mar 1994 North Korea Daily Denounces U.S. for `Nuclear Blackmail' SK2403105294 Pyongyang KCNA in English 1023 GMT 24 Mar 94 SK2403105294 Pyongyang KCNA Language: English Article Type:BFN ["MINJU CHOSON Slams Nuclear Threat of U.S. Military"--KCNA headline] [Text] Pyongyang, March 24 (KCNA) -- The U.S. military recently discussed the "possibility of the use of nuclear weapons" allegedly to "check" the chemical and biological weapon "attack" from non-nuclear states. Branding this as an unpardonable crime, a MINJU CHOSON analyst today says: The open argument for the "possibility of the use of nuclear weapons" by the U.S. military contradicts the principle of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT). The NPT itself is an inequitable treaty favorable only for the nuclear-weapon states. Moreover, the United States, a nuclear power, is presenting nuclear threat to non-nuclear states, frequently violating the NPT, which it signed. Its nuclear threat still remains and is getting more undisguised today after the end of the Cold War, not to speak of the Cold War era. The United States is intensifying nuclear threat to the DPRK, a non-nuclear and peaceful state. Although the United States in its joint statement with the DPRK in June last year committed itself not to use force of arms including nuclear weapons or pose a threat, it has never ceased nuclear blackmail to the DPRK with nuclear war exercises targeted against it. The U.S. is increasing its nuclear threat to the DPRK by manipulating even the International Atomic Energy Agency. It has reversed the agreed conclusions reached at the DPRK-U.S. contact in New York and is going to stage the Team Spirit 94 joint military maneuvers, a nuclear war game against the DPRK. The United States is a nuclear war criminal who has already imposed nuclear disaster on humanity. The United States must clearly see the demand of the times and the desire of the world people and act with discretion.
