FBIS3-27157 "drchi035_a_94020" FBIS-CHI-94-035 Document Type:Daily Report 22 February 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS General XINHUA Reports Developments in Bosnia-Herzegovina U.S. Secretary, Bosnian Premier on Settlement OW2202003894 Beijing XINHUA in English 2324 GMT 21 Feb 94 OW2202003894 Beijing XINHUA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Washington, February 21 (XINHUA) -- The Bosnian Government is prepared to accept a settlement that is "least unjust of all" but would not capitulate, visiting Prime Minister Haris Silajdzic said here today. "We have accepted to reorganize our country into different units now in order to try and make a comprise," Silajdzic said during a photo session before talking with U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher. For his part, Christopher said they would discuss the "reasonable requirements of Bosnia for a settlement that would get international approval, international acceptance." Silajdzic praised the NATO ultimatum because "it restores the balance of powers in Bosnia." "We believe that after this NATO ultimatum, nothing will be the same in Bosnia-Herzegovina," he said. "Where there is balance of powers, there is peace." Washington has been sympathetic to the Bosnian Government, which is mainly comprised of Muslims, as the grieved side in the 22-month bloody war in the former Yugoslav republic that left up to 40,000 people dead. Russia, another major player in the Bosnian peace process, is pressuring Washington to exert its influence with the Muslims to accept a peace settlement. However, Christopher emphasized, Washington "continues to feel that there should be no coercion on Bosnia, that we will not impose a settlement on them." While praising Russia's contribution to the Bosnian Serbs' agreement to move away or put under UN control of all their heavy weapons in Sarajevo, Christopher repeated his belief that it was mainly the NATO ultimatum that did the trick. "The principal responsibility for the good results achieved in Sarajevo has to be attributed to the resolve and determination of NATO," Christopher said. Silajdzic will stay in Washington until Friday [25 February] before leaving for New York. He would also meet with congressional leaders in the coming days.
