FBIS3-7391 "dreas059_d_94013" FBIS-EAS-94-059 Document Type:Daily Report 26 Mar 1994 South Korea DPRK Party Cell Conference Purpose Analyzed SK2603095794 Seoul CHUNGANG ILBO in Korean 26 Mar 94 p 2 SK2603095794 Seoul CHUNGANG ILBO Language: Korean Article Type:BFN [By reporter An Song-kyu] [Excerpts] A conference of cell secretaries of the North Korean Workers Party will be held in Pyongyang late this month for the first time since the party was founded. According to Article No. 42 of the Workers Party regulation, the party cell is the lowest organization composed of 5 to 30 party members from 3-million party members working throughout plants, enterprises, cooperative farms, administrative organizations, public organizations and military. Article No. 41 of this regulation stipulates the mission of the party cell as follows: The party cell is a combat unit of the party which unites the masses with the party and which directly executes the party's policy and lines among the masses. The party cell secretaries are elected at a congress of the party cells which is convened more than once every month, and their tenure is one year. However, their total number has not been revealed. The National Unification Board [NUB] noted that since the Workers Party was founded on 30 June 1949, the party congress was held six times, the party Central Committee meeting was held every six months, and party Political Bureau meetings, party Standing Committee meetings and party secretaries' meetings were held occasionally. However, the convocation of a conference of cell secretaries of the party is the first of its kind in the history of the Workers Party. As this conference will be held for the first time, the people's attention is focused on the background of holding the conference. However, North Korea made public only the fact of holding the conference and stereotypical agenda for discussion. [passage omitted] The NUB believes that this exceptional "conference of cell secretaries of the party" has something to do with the current situation strained surrounding the North Korean nuclear issue. In other words, North Korea will take advantage of the situation strained by the rupture of the North-South contact and by the moves of the international community for sanctions against North Korea for consolidating its system. It is also likely that North Korea will stress the necessity of ideological struggle during the conference of cell secretaries of the party in a bid to prevent residents' wavering to be caused by economic difficulties in the event that the pressure is increasing on North Korea, thus attempting to disseminate the necessity of struggle to the people through the party's cell organizations.
