FBIS3-26008 "drchi022_l_94002" FBIS-CHI-94-022 Document Type:Daily Report 2 Feb 1994 Science & Technology Li Peng May Attend Nuclear Power Plant Opening To Cut Ribbon HK0202072094 Hong Kong MING PAO in Chinese 2 Feb 94 p A10 HK0202072094 Hong Kong MING PAO Language: Chinese Article Type:BFN [Report: "Li Peng Is To Cut the Ribbon at the Inauguration of Daya Bay Nuclear Power Station This Weekend"] [Text] Chinese Premier Li Peng is arriving in Shenzhen this weekend to attend the ribbon-cutting ceremony of Guangdong's Daya Bay Nuclear Power Station. According to informed sources, this ceremony will be brief and short in accordance with the principle of "high standard, small scope" without giving it too much publicity. Sources in Beijing said: His health permitting, Li Peng will definitely attend the inaugural ceremony of the Daya Bay Nuclear Power Station. Many personalities from the French consortium will also attend the ceremony. Because the No. 1 unit of the power station has already gone into operation and generated over 700 million kwt-hours, this will be just a ceremony, so it will be as simple as possible. The staff of Guangdong Provincial Nuclear Power Joint Venture Corporation have been stepping up preparations for the ceremony. They held a meeting yesterday to discuss arrangements for the procedure. One official said: The period from 4 to 6 February will be the busiest for receiving visitors from the State Council, the provincial authorities, the city authorities, and abroad. He said: If all goes well, Li Peng will definitely turn up. He said that Li Peng has always paid close attention to the construction of Daya Bay Nuclear Power Station and promised to visit it when it went into operation. Sources said: After the No. 1 generating unit went into operation, the No. 2 unit is also entering the phase of trial generation in June this year. It has been nearly 10 years since preparations for building Daya Bay Nuclear Power Station started. The total investment is $4 billion, making it the biggest joint-venture project in China up to now. Guangdong Province and Hong Kong's China Light and Power Company co-invested in the project a total of $400 million, in a three to one ratio. The two 900,000-kwt generating units are capable of generating more than 10 billion kwt-hours per year, of which 70 percent is to be sold to Hong Kong. When the debts are repaid in 15 years' time, the Chinese-Hong Kong partnership will continue for another five years.
