FBIS3-41061 "jptac001__l94002" JPRS-TAC-94-001-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Arms Control 22 February 1994 CHINA Statements Made at UN Calls on Nuclear States To Pledge Non-First Use OW2201093294 Beijing XINHUA in English 0921 GMT 22 Jan 94 OW2201093294 Beijing XINHUA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] United Nations, January 21 (XINHUA) -- A Chinese representative today called for "all nuclear states to undertake not to be the first to use nuclear weapons and not to use or threaten to use nuclear weapons against non-nuclear states and nuclear free zones." Sha Zukang, head of the Chinese delegation to the session, expounded on how to effectively prevent the spread of nuclear weapons at the second session of the preparatory committee for the 1995 conference of parties to the treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, which was held this week and concluded today. Sha said "China attaches great importance to the prevention of nuclear weapons proliferation and the maintenance of an effective international legal mechanism for that purpose." "At the same time, China also believes that non-proliferation by itself is not the ultimate goal for mankind, and that the objective must be complete prohibition and thorough destruction of nuclear weapons." As the nuclear countries fail to agree to ban and destroy nuclear weapons, "the imbalance inherent in the treaty in the rights and obligations between the nuclear and non-nuclear states is perpetuated and the security demand by many non-nuclear states cannot be genuinely assured." So, people should put emphasis on the commitment by the nuclear nations to non-first-use and non-use of nuclear weapons, Sha stressed. "The Chinese Government believes that conditions are now ripe" for making that commitment, Sha said. The reason, he went on, is that with the ending of the Cold War era, the first-use defense doctrines of the East and West based on a balance of nuclear terror and nuclear deterrence against conventional supremacy have lost their validity and pretext. Sha criticized some big super nuclear powers for lack of sincerity for peace. "Should the nuclear states, the largest nuclear states with global nuclear attack capabilities in particular, emphasize only non-proliferation and their own absolute security to the neglect of the legitimate concerns of the non-nuclear states,... how can they expect the large number of non-nuclear states trust their sincerity for peace," he said.
