FBIS4-33745 "drlat113__a94006" FBIS-LAT-94-113-A Daily Report 6 Jun 1994 ANNEX Brazil Free Trade, Export-Processing Zones Threaten Mercosur Free Trade, Export-Processing Zones Threaten Mercosur PY0706203794 Rio de Janeiro JORNAL DO BRASIL in Portuguese 6 Jun 94 p 13 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY PY0706203794 Rio de Janeiro JORNAL DO BRASIL Portuguese BFN [Article from Gilberto Scofield Junior's "Economic Report" column] [Text] The governments of Uruguay and Paraguay have set their eyes on free trade zones in Brazil (in Manaus) and Argentina (in Tierra del Fuego, near the Beagle Canal), which are the latest difficulty for a consolidated implementation of the Common Market of the South [Mercosur]. Paraguayan and Uruguayan diplomats have made it clear: They do not agree to free trade zones inside Mercosur unless their countries can also establish theirs. Their fear makes sense. After all, areas with fiscal privileges that can send products to the giant common market at a low cost are a threat to any industrial park. "The countries already have reached an accord on the export-processing zones, but negotiations on free trade zones continue," said Antonio Sergio Martins, secretary for industrial policy in the Industry, Commerce and Tourism Ministry. The problem is of a geo-economic nature. The Manaus and Tierra del Fuego free trade zones were established as a strategy to develop remote regions in Brazil and Argentina. These zones are nearly 3,000 km from the two large countries' consumption centers. Uruguay and Paraguay are very small countries. Even if the free trade zones are established far from these two countries' capitals, they will not be more than 400 km from the consumption centers and very near southern Brazil and northern Argentina. Instead of putting an end to the existing free trade zones, the solution may be to reduce the fiscal benefits currently in force in Manaus and Tierra del Fuego. The curious thing, however, is that the Brazilian Congress recently renewed the paternalistic benefits granted to the Manaus Free Trade Zone for a few more years. Meanwhile, Mercosur goes into force on 1 January 1995.
