FBIS3-2544 "drchi047_r_94005" FBIS-CHI-94-047 Document Type:Daily Report 10 Mar 1994 North Region Tianjin Mayor Views Development of Seaside Zone OW0603143794 Beijing XINHUA in English 1359 GMT 6 Mar 94 OW0603143794 Beijing XINHUA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Tianjin, March 6 (XINHUA) -- North China's port city of Tianjin is stepping up the development and opening of a new seaside zone as part of the city's persistent efforts to open to the outside world, said the city mayor. Mayor Zhang Lichang told the municipal people's congress that a blueprint for the building of the seaside economic zone has been completed after a long time of preparation and deliberation and his government will redouble efforts to implement it. He revealed the basic framework of the emerging economic zone, which includes the Tianjin Port, the free trade area, and the economic and technology development zone along the seaside. The zone, featuring the export-oriented economy and booming industries such as the metallurgy and chemical industry, commerce, finance, and tourism, will be developed into a free port area with complete infrastructural facilities and multi-functional services. In addition, the zone's gross domestic product (GDP) and gross export value are expected to account for over 40 percent of the city's total in the coming decade, Zhang said. Describing the future of the seaside zone, Zhang said that emphasis will be placed on the construction of the Tianjin Port, the development zone, the free trade zone, the chemical industrial area, and infrastructural facilities. The Tianjin Port will be made one of the country's first-class ports, capable of handling over 40 million tons of goods and over 500,000 standard containers. The development area will enlarge Tianjin's foreign investment and expand its foreign economic trade. The total industrial output value is targeted for 11 billion yuan. Meanwhile, the construction pace of the free trade zone will also be quickened. A good service system for storing, transporting, and processing will be built in order to bring them into line with the requirements of the world market. The official said that more funds will be pooled for infrastructural projects, such as expressways, highways, water works, and thermal-power plant.
