FBIS4-58780 "drnes089bb_94007" FBIS-NES-94-089 Daily Report 29 Apr 1994 Inter-Arab Affairs Syria Reportedly Leading Efforts To Sustain Boycott Syria Reportedly Leading Efforts To Sustain Boycott NC0705113294 Cairo AL-WAFD in Arabic 29 Apr 94 p 5 NC0705113294 Cairo AL-WAFD Arabic BFN [Report by 'Abd-al-Nabi 'Abd-al-Sattar] [Excerpts] The general commissioner of the Damascus main branch of the Arab Bureau on the Boycott of Israel is making contacts with Arab governments to set a date for the bureau's 67th session, which has been postponed since October 1993. Arab diplomatic sources in Cairo affirm that Syria is currently leading a large-scale diplomatic effort to persuade Arab states to hold on to the boycott weapon until all occupied Arab territories are liberated. The sources revealed that seven Arab states in Asia and Africa have ended their second- and third-level economic boycotts of Israel. At its last meeting in late March, the Arab League Ministerial Council reiterated the Arab states' firm concurence with the provisions of the boycott and their resistance to foreign legislation opposing the boycott. The reason the council gave was the continued Israeli occupation of Palestine, the Golan Heights, and South Lebanon. The United States and other Western states have recently sought to persuade Arab states to shrink their boycott of Israel gradually and eventually end it. [passage omitted] The latest report the Boycott Bureau issued includes a list of 60 companies, firms, and foreign banks that have violated the terms of the boycott. The bureau called for including these on the black list. The companies are British, American, Spanish, and Bulgarian. The bureau recommended that the ban be lifted on certain Dutch, British, Swedish, Australian, American, Swiss, Greek, French, Canadian, Singaporean, and Danish firms. These firms submitted documents proving the integrity of their position. The report demanded the addition of 6 ships belonging to Panama, the Bahamas, Honduras, and Malaysia to the black list.
