FBIS4-21117 "jptdd015__l94078" JPRS-TDD-94-015-L JPRS Narcotics 26 March 1994 CENTRAL EURASIA RUSSIA Poppy Straw, Marijuana Among Drugs Seized at Moscow Subway Poppy Straw, Marijuana Among Drugs Seized at Moscow Subway Stations 94WD0301A Moscow KOMMERSANT-DAILY in Russian 26 Mar 94 p 22 94WD0301A Moscow KOMMERSANT-DAILY Russian CSO [Report by Maksim Igorev: "Pot Suppliers: Of All Means of Transportation, the Most Important For Us Is the Subway"] [Text] Moscow militia officers yesterday completed another operation in interdicting illegal drug trafficking. As a result of this operation more than 20 kg of drugs and raw materials for their manufacture were confiscated from criminals. As a KOMMERSANT correspondent was told at the Moscow GUVD [City Administration of Internal Affairs], the greatest consignment of narcotic raw materials was confiscated in the lobby of the Kiyevskaya subway station by the Fedchik brothers--officers of the UVD's 3rd Department for Subway Security. They detained Ukrainian citizen Igor Belov; during the subsequent search, 13 kg of poppy straw was found in his possession and confiscated. At the same time, at the Komsomolskaya subway station operatives detained Rostov Oblast resident Igor Roshchin, on whom they found--and confiscated--500 g of marijuana. In addition, 30 g of poppy straw, four liters of pervitin, and a sawn-off shotgun were found in the possession of watchmen at an industrial warehouse on Dorozhnaya Street. According to militia data, suppliers of drugs and materials for their manufacture have changed their tactics lately. They now do not go directly to Moscow from contiguous states on long-distance trains but instead disembark in oblast centers such as Kaluga or Tula. From there they usually hitch a car ride to the capital. Nevertheless, since the beginning of the year militia personnel have confiscated about 200 kg of poppy straw at Kievskiy Railroad Station alone. According to operatives, the size of the average supplier's consignment of poppy straw these days is 60-70 kg.
