FBIS4-47214 "jpusr069___94029" FBIS-USR-94-069 JPRS FBIS Report: Central Eurasia 18 June 1994 CENTRAL ASIA KAZAKHSTAN New Role for National Bank Head Evaluated New Role for National Bank Head Evaluated 944K1534A Almaty PANORAMA in Russian No 24, 18 Jun 94 p 2 944K1534A Almaty PANORAMA Russian CSO [Article by N.D.: "Republic National Bank To Be Outside the Framework of All Branches of Power"] [Text] On 15 June, the Supreme Council confirmed Daulet Sembayev as chairman of the National Bank. The National Bank is assigned a special role in the banking and financial reform program proclaimed by the president. Plans call for the National Bank to be outside the framework of all branches of power. It is seen theoretically as an analogue of the American reserve financial system, a distinctive counterweight subject to the lobbyist influence of ministries and committees of the Supreme Council. On the eve of his confirmation to the position of chairman, Daulet Sembayev was removed from the Cabinet of Ministers, and thereby from the system of vertical subordination to the prime minister. In the words of President Nazarbayev, the National Bank will be responsible to us only for the state of the tenge. Characterizing Daulet Sembayev during his speech to the parliament, the president stated: "This is an honest man, without question. I am absolutely convinced of his decency. Also of no small importance is the fact that he is surrounded by young, talented economists." At the same time, the president noted that Sembayev "participated in drawing up and implementing all the previous programs. This too must be noted." It is expected that the National Bank, having received confirmation of its authority, will undertake energetic efforts to reduce monetary emission and, in the final analysis, to stabilize the tenge, if this is supported by the political will of the president and parliament. The appointment of Sembayev is the first personnel matter decided jointly by the president and new Supreme Council. The next candidacy to be presented for examination by the session will be that of Mikhail Malakhov, recently recommended by the president for the position of chairman of the Supreme Court.
