FBIS4-523 "drafr070_c_94062" FBIS-AFR-94-070 Daily Report 12 Apr 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA South African Press Review for 12 Apr South African Press Review for 12 Apr MB1204134094 MB1204134094 BFN [Editorial Report] THE CITIZEN Johannesburg THE CITIZEN in English on 11 April in its page-6 editorial urges the four summit leaders, President de Klerk, ANC President Nelson Mandela, Zulu King Zwelithini, and Inkatha Freedom Party (IFP) leader Mangosuthu Buthelezi respectively, to "rethink" their positions on kwaZulu/Natal "with greater urgency." "Mr Mandela wants a further meeting with the king, but he will have to offer more than he has suggested so far. As for Chief Buthelezi, he should know that an ANC-dominated government intends to finish him off after the election when kwaZulu will no longer exist as an entity." Buthelezi should "rather take part, even at this 11th hour, in the poll than have to fight a post-election battle from a weakened position. The situation is a mess -- a bloody mess -- and nobody has the ability or determination to rescue kwaZulu/Natal from it." THE STAR TEC Increase of Police Allowances Prudent -- "The anticipated decision by the TEC [Transitional Executive Council] to nearly treble the daily allowance paid to policemen during the election period is prudent rather than profligate," notes a page-12 editorial in Johannesburg THE STAR in English on 12 April. "Policemen, frequently abused as 'oppressors' by radicals, are if anything exposed to greater dangers than members of the Defence Force and Peacekeeping Force. Glaring disparities in salaries cannot be justified." THE STAR also notes that Nelson Mandela has "begun to urge the public to co-operate with the SADF [South African Defense Force] and the SAP [South African Police]. He includes the SAP when he praises the security forces." THE STAR believes that rogue policemen should be removed, but that "the SAP as a whole deserves more than abuse and inadequate pay-cheques." BUSINESS DAY ANC `Indifferent' to Flight of Investment Capital -- Johannesburg BUSINESS DAY warns in a page-10 editorial on 12 April that the collapse of the financial and commercial rands "was not a temporary occurrence that can safely be ignored." "Television images of tanks rumbling into Natal's kraals and of Zulu royalists being shot dead outside Shell House help underscore the world's belief that we are drifting towards civil war. While that impression remains, the outward flight of foreign and South African investment capital will not abate." Meanwhile, "the ANC, our next ruling party, is distracted by its drive to annihilate its political opponents and is apparently indifferent to the likely effects of its current actions and promises on South Africa's long-term economic health. Vague affirmations of economic rectitude are no longer adequate. If the past weeks' damage to investor confidence is to be repaired, unequivocal commitments are needed to economic and political policies that investors find comfortable."
