FBIS3-44127 "drafr016_d_94029" FBIS-AFR-94-016 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Jan 1994 SOUTHERN AFRICA Swaziland Premier Meets Taiwan's Deputy Foreign Minister MB2501070394 Mbabane THE SWAZI OBSERVER in English 25 Jan 93 p 2 MB2501070394 Mbabane THE SWAZI OBSERVER Language: English Article Type:BFN [Report by Phindile Simelane] [Text] The Prime Minister, Prince Mbilini yesterday welcomed the Chinese Deputy Foreign Minister, Mr Sieou-Je Hoang [name and title as published] and his delegation to the Kingdom. The delegation will be holding their 1994 Regional ambassadors' meeting in the country. The Prime Minister said this signifies the strong bonds of friendship that exists between the two countries and "the trust and confidence the government and the Republic of China and Taiwan place on us. The friendship of our two countries dates back when Swaziland attained her independence in 1968 and ever since, has grown from strength to strength." He further extended regards to the Chinese Government for the contributions they made towards the preservation of the country's heritage through the building of King Sobhuza II Memorial Hall at Lobamba. "This is a greatest gift to the Swazi Nation, for King Sobhuza II is held in the highest esteem by the people of this country," he said. Furthermore, the Premier thanked the Chinese government for the assistance rendered to the people of Swaziland and economic co-operation existing between the two-countries. "Your Agricultural Mission continues to play an important role in improving the farming standard of local farmers despite the prolonged severe drought we continue to experience," he stated. The two governments last week signed an agreement amounting to E[Emalangeni] 3m[million] to boost agriculture. The money will help farmers obtain loans from the Swaziland Savings and Development Bank. The Premier, on behalf of the nation, thanked the Chinese government for their generosity during the time when in dire need. The Chinese government contributed twice to the Disaster Relief Force to help starving victims of the ravaging drought and again when the nation was celebrating the Silver Jubilee. They donated financially and materially. The Premier promised that Swaziland would continue to support the government of the Republic of China in the international forum in search for peace.
