FBIS4-25700 "drchi114_m_94002" FBIS-CHI-94-114 Daily Report 10 Jun 1994 Military Xinjiang Army Commissar Addresses Patriotism Rally Xinjiang Army Commissar Addresses Patriotism Rally OW1206045094 Urumqi Xinjiang Television Network in Mandarin 1330 GMT 10 Jun 94 OW1206045094 Urumqi Xinjiang Television Network Mandarin BFN [From the "Xinjiang News" program] [Text] [video shows shots of Pan Zhaomin speaking from a prepared script to several hundred people in military uniform at an outdoor area] The Lanzhou Military Region [MR] called a mobilization meeting on patriotic education at a Xinjiang Military District [MD] engineering corps this morning. Pan Zhaomin, deputy political commissar of the Lanzhou MR and political commissar of the Xinjiang MD, spoke at the meeting. He said: We should thoroughly recognize patriotism's special significance to army building. The ideas of patriotism, collectivism, and socialism, as well as the spirit of dedication to national defense and of self-improvement and self-reliance should take root among cadres and fighters. He said: We should further foster patriotism in the new historical era, which calls for adhering to the party's basic line to accelerate the pace of reform and opening up; establish a socialist market economy; and build a strong, prosperous, democratic, civilized, and modern socialist power. The great cause of building socialism with Chinese characteristics that we have pursued is one of combining socialism with patriotism. Upholding patriotism to safeguard the Chinese nation's independence and dignity is the important foundation of contemporary socialism, as well as the source of strength for all Chinese people to struggle in unity. He said: The purpose of patriotic education is to foster the sentiments for frontier, barracks, and one's own work. We should strive to perform meritorious services at our own posts. We should be clearly aware that devoting ourselves to our own work, doing a good job at our own posts, and endeavoring to make contributions through our work are concrete manifestations of patriotism. We should translate the idea of serving the country with concrete actions. He said: During several decades of defending and building up the frontier, a large number of models and heroes working assiduously and sacrificing selflessly for the motherland have come to the fore. In light of the realities in the military region and district, we should educate cadres and fighters with the advanced deeds of both national and regional heroes and models.
