FBIS4-29402 "dreas117_d_94004" FBIS-EAS-94-117 Daily Report 17 Jun 1994 South Korea Ministry on Remarks by DPRK's Kim, U.S. Statement Ministry on Remarks by DPRK's Kim, U.S. Statement SK1706023094 Seoul YONHAP in English 0222 GMT 17 Jun 94 SK1706023094 Seoul YONHAP English BFN [Text] Seoul, June 17 (YONHAP) -- South Korea will first verify the exact meaning of North Korea's suggestions to former U.S. President Jimmy Carter and consult with Washington before deciding on future action, Foreign Ministry spokesman Chang Ki-ho said Friday. "They are all indications," Chang said at a press briefing in reaction to reports that North Korean leader Kim Il-song told Carter he would let International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) inspectors remain in North Korea and was willing to keep monitoring equipment in operation. U.S. Assistant Secretary of State Robert Gallucci issued a statement from the White House after receiving a report from Carter, suggesting that Washington may enter into the next round of high-level dialogue with Pyongyang if these positive indications are confirmed. Foreign Minister Han Sung-chu talked with U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher three times Friday morning to discuss Carter's report and consult on the wording of Gallucci's statement, Chang said. Noting North Korea's desire to resolve the nuclear crisis, Gallucci said the Stalinist nation's suggestions would indeed be constructive "if it means that North Korea is also committed to freezing the major elements of its nuclear program while new talks took place -- that is, not refueling the reactor or reprocessing the spent fuel it has just removed and permitting the IAEA to maintain the continuity of safeguards." "The government plans to continue to pursue negotiations on the sanctions resolution at the United Nations," Chang said. "We will be briefed by Carter tomorrow on the results of his North Korean visit. We will decide what to do after consultations with the U.S. side," the spokesman noted.
