FBIS3-45565 "drchi009_a_94019" FBIS-CHI-94-009 Document Type:Daily Report 13 January 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS General President Clinton in Moscow For Talks With Yeltsin Second Round of Talks End OW1301150094 Beijing XINHUA in English 1359 GMT 13 Jan 94 OW1301150094 Beijing XINHUA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Moscow, January 13 (XINHUA) -- U.S. President Bill Clinton and Russian President Boris Yeltsin ended their second round of talks here this morning, which focused on economic cooperation. The talks, scheduled for 70 minutes, lasted more than 90 minutes, said Oleg Lobov, Russian National Security Council secretary. He said the talks included discussions of economic cooperation between Russia and the United States, as well as U.S. assistance for Russia's economic reforms, including how to build closer ties between Russia and international lending organizations such as the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund. Yeltsin spoke to Clinton of "positive shifts" in the process of reform, and said that they will not slow down. Clinton said the United States would provide "maximum support" for the reform process, particularly in the social sphere. The two presidents will meet again Friday [14 January] morning after the planned tripartite summit with Ukrainian leader Leonid Kravchuk, during which a historical agreement "to make the world a safer place with fewer nuclear weapons" is due to be signed by the leaders of the three countries. Kravchuk will arrive in Moscow this afternoon, and is expected to sign an agreement on Friday to remove the 176 nuclear missiles and 1,500 nuclear warheads which were deployed on ukranian territory by the former Soviet Union. In the first round of talks this morning, which lasted one hour, the two leaders focused on the political and economic situation in Russia, said Vyacheslav Kostikov, the Russian presidential spokesman. Clinton introduced the "partnership for peace" proposal to Yeltsin, said Kostikov, who added that the concept is still little known in Russia. The problem of possible NATO expansion was also discussed during the initial talks.
