FBIS4-44064 "drweu123cc_94007" FBIS-WEU-94-123 Daily Report 24 Jun 1994 INTER-EUROPEAN AFFAIRS Greek Spokesman on EU Expansion, Meeting Agenda Greek Spokesman on EU Expansion, Meeting Agenda NC2406184294 Athens Elliniki Radhiofonia Radio Network in Greek 1500 GMT 24 Jun 94 NC2406184294 Athens Elliniki Radhiofonia Radio Network Greek BFN [Text] Government Spokesman Evangelos Venizelos said: The Greek Presidency of the European Council wants to confirm that the accession of Cyprus and Malta will take place during the next phase of the European Union's [EU] expansion. He added that the Republic of Cyprus already meets the nominal criteria of the Maastricht Treaty. Mr. Venizelos praised the statement of outgoing European Parliament President Egon Klepsch, who pointed out the need for Cyprus and Malta to be included in the next phase of the EU expansion within a specific time limit. Mr. Venizelos further noted that at the noon meeting of the EU summit participants discussed the European election results, the French-German initiative to combat racism and xenophobia, and the questions pertaining to the so-called Third Pylon -- cooperation, internal issues, matters of justice -- that are provided for in the Maastricht Treaty. Prime Minister Andreas Papandreou pointed out the phenomenon of extreme diaspora of votes to parties that do not belong to the European Parliament and the fact that in our country voting is compulsory. The prime minister said: The low turnout of the European Election should give us reason to think. After the Greek prime minister finished, French President Francois Mitterrand took the floor and referred to the French-German initiative to combat racism and xenophobia. The next speaker was British Prime Minister John Major who referred to the need for cooperation between the police authorities of the member states. In his address, European Commission President Jacques Delors referred to the problem of political indifference that was noticed during the European Election.
