FBIS3-53603 "drnes011_s_94004" FBIS-NES-94-011 Document Type:Daily Report 18 Jan 1994 Iran Commentaries View Clinton-al-Asad Summit U.S. Aims, Interests Examined NC1701213494 Tehran Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran in Arabic 1730 GMT 17 Jan 94 NC1701213494 Tehran Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Commentary by Beirut correspondent Muhammad Bishkar] [Text] The outcome of the Geneva summit yesterday between Syrian President Hafiz al-Asad and U.S. President Bill Clinton has created the impression that what took place was a discussion of broad matters and that the summit never touched on the minute details which confuse the Middle East's problems. Such details were left for committees and subcommittees and for the two countries' foreign ministers. This means that the implementation of what has been agreed upon will take a long time, and this in itself dampens the hopes of Arabs and non-Arabs who are in a hurry to normalize ties with Israel and make peace with that country. The United States said what it wanted through its president, and the Syrian president said what he wanted, but what the two sides desire do not concur in substance, although the U.S. media tried to show superficial agreement between the two presidents at the Geneva summit. The problem with the United States is that it is not neutral in the conflict with the Zionist state but is supportive of this state in political, economical, and security areas. The United States' aim in the peace process, which was launched in Madrid over two years ago, is only to perpetuate Israel's strength on all levels at the expense of Arabs and Muslims. This obvious U.S. stance, which has been manifested numerous times in U.S. policy on the region, is alone capable of undermining the peace process if the opposite side is the Syrian stance that contradicts the aims of U.S. policy in the region. As for Israel, where U.S. envoy Dennis Ross rushed to convey Clinton's assurances to its officials a few hours after the Syrian-U.S. summit, it is practically sure of the U.S. Administration's intentions toward it and of Washington's policy that gives it an important role in the Middle East's leadership. Israel does not object to agreeing with Syria and other Arab countries to normalize diplomatic, economic, and even social ties. But so far it is not ready to give the Arabs any (?concession), not in terms of land, security, or economics. If anything, the Geneva summit shows the United States' extreme concern to make the region's settlement process a success in line with its own interests and domination of the region's resources and wealth.
