FBIS4-30846 "dreeu105_i_94012" FBIS-EEU-94-105 Daily Report 31 May 1994 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA Serbs Reportedly Forced Into Muslim Units Serbs Reportedly Forced Into Muslim Units LD3105154294 Belgrade TANJUG in English 1422 GMT 31 May 94 LD3105154294 Belgrade TANJUG English BFN ["Pool" item] [Text] Zvornik, May 31 (TANJUG) -- The massive mobilization of civilians for the Muslim forces is underway in the territory of the U.N.-designated safe area of Tuzla in northeastern Bosnia-Herzegovina, TANJUG learned from Bosnian Serb military sources on Tuesday [31 May]. Muslim military authorities are again forcibly mobilizing Serbs, escorting them under armed guard to mobilization sites, says the Bosnian Serb army statement which warns that representatives of the United Nations Protection Forces (UNPROFOR) and foreign reporters in Tuzla are not reacting to these activities. All six Muslim safe areas in the former Yugoslav republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina should have been demilitarized in spring last year. Meanwhile, Muslims continue artillery attacks on Serb villages and army positions on Tuesday, Bosnian Serb military sources have said. Muslims are firing at Serb villages and positions in the area of Doboj in the north and in the area of Sokolac, Han Pijesak, Vlasenica, Sekovici and Zvornik in the east, the statement says. In the area of Mt. Ozren, the Bosnian Serb army has thwarted an attempt by a Muslim terrorist-scouting group to infiltrate the area, says the statement. In the area of Velika Kladusa in western Bosnia, forces loyal to Muslim fundamentalist leader Alija Izetbegovic are building up their hardware and rallying terrorist groups in the area of Velika Kladusa, preparing a decisive attack on this town which is the center of the newly proclaimed Autonomous Province of Western Bosnia, the local Muslim radio in Velika Kladusa said on Tuesday. Muslims in western Bosnia-Herzegovina, who were against the war-mongering policy of Izetbegovic, proclaimed autonomy in September last year, distancing themselves from the decisions of Sarajevo's Bosnian Muslim leadership. Heavy inter-Muslim conflicts have been underway in western Bosnia since that time, because Izetbegovic sent his army to stifle the new autonomy `using all available means.'
