FBIS3-49433 "dreeu007_y_94006" FBIS-EEU-94-007 Document Type:Daily Report 11 Jan 1994 YUGOSLAVIA Serbia Djindjic Predicts New Elections `Soon' AU1001154894 Belgrade Radio Beograd Network in Serbo-Croatian 1400 GMT 10 Jan 94 AU1001154894 Belgrade Radio Beograd Network Language: Serbo-Croatian Article Type:BFN [Text] Zoran Djindjic, chairman of the Executive Committee of the Democratic Party, stated that the new government of Serbia will not be formed, even though a compromise is possible, and that one should expect new elections to be called soon. Speaking at a news conference, he also said that the rift in the party will soon be resolved with the vote of no confidence in Dragoljub Micunovic, president of the Democratic Party. Srdjan Savic reports: [Savic] The meeting of the Main Committee of the Democratic Party was interrupted early this morning because there was no quorum during the casting of the vote of confidence in the party president, Dragoljub Micunovic, Djindjic said. The session of the Main Committee will be resumed on Saturday [15 January] at which members will not make speeches, but only hold a vote of confidence in the party's president. The convening of the conference of the Democratic Party will also be on the agenda. There is no danger of yet another Democratic Party being formed, Djindjic said, stressing that the dispute with Micunovic is not personal and that they only have conceptual differences. The president of the Executive Committee of the Democrats holds the view that the political life in Serbia represents the continuation of a chaos, that wages and pensions are not being paid because of the shortage of cash, and that the German mark is becoming the main unit of account. According to him, all this is being induced by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Djindjic stressed that the Democratic Party will not enter the government formed by the Socialists. He said that Sainovic's government will remain in office until the next elections, which should be expected soon. A compromise is nevertheless possible, and the next move should be made by Serbian President Slobodan Milosevic and the Socialist Party of Serbia, Zoran Djindjic concluded.
