FBIS4-29707 "dreas119_c_94003" FBIS-EAS-94-119 Daily Report 20 Jun 1994 North Korea Alleged Evacuation Plan Linked to SDF Role Alleged Evacuation Plan Linked to SDF Role SK2106005394 Pyongyang Korean Central Broadcasting Network in Korean 2210 GMT 20 Jun 94 SK2106005394 Pyongyang Korean Central Broadcasting Network in Korean 2210 GMT 20 Jun 94 Korean BFN [Text] According to reports, the United States and Japan are strengthening their conspiracy and collusion [kongmo kyoltak] in preparation for an emergency [yusasie taebihayo] on the Korean peninsula. According to Japan's YOMIURI SHIMBUN dated 18 June, the U.S. Government recently asked Japan to transport Americans along with Japanese in South Korea when Japan withdraws its people from South Korea in preparation for an acute situation [kinbakhan satae] on the Korean peninsula. Accordingly, the Japanese Government is making every effort for an early passage of the revised Self-Defense Forces [SDF] Law draft that enables Japan to dispatch SDF planes to South Korea. On the other hand, it has begun to consider using warships, which are capable of transporting more people than airplanes, in case of emergency. The revised SDF Law draft aimed at dispatching SDF planes to South Korea is reportedly being deliberated by the Special Security Committee of the Japanese House of Representatives. This hints that the U.S. anti-Republic crushing maneuver has reached a very dangerous stage [migugui pan konghwaguk apsal chaektongi maeu wihomhan tangye-e irugo ittanun kosul sisa haejunun hanpyon], as well as showing that the Japanese reactionaries' ambition to invade Korea again and their maneuver to dispatch their troops overseas have reached an extreme level [kukto-e tarhago ittanun kosul]. The United States is trying to use military planes and warships of the SDF in carrying out a war against the Republic under the pretext of withdrawing foreigners form South Korea. The Japanese reactionaries backed by the United States [migugul tungdaego] are attempting to mobilize SDF troops for a war of invading Korea [choson chimnyak chonjaeng] and to legally dispatch them overseas by revising the SDF Law, under the cloak of transporting foreigners. The conspiracy and collusion of the United States and Japan aimed at the Korean peninsula is arousing concerns of world public opinion for its dangerousness [ku wihomsonguro hayo].
