FBIS3-24777 "drafr021_a_94008" FBIS-AFR-94-021 Document Type:Daily Report 1 Feb 1994 CENTRAL AFRICA Zaire Renewed Fighting Reported in Kivu Province 1 Feb AB0102120594 London BBC World Service in English 0600 GMT 1 Feb 94 AB0102120594 London BBC World Service Language: English Article Type:BFN [From the "Network Africa" program] [Text] According to reports from Zaire over the last couple of weeks, there has been renewed fighting between rebels and government troops in the eastern province of Kivu. It comes at a time of continuing tension between the police and local people. The government has been meeting to discuss the situation and yesterday, they released two statements. (Mossy Mwassi) has been monitoring events from Brazzaville in neighboring Congo. [Begin recording] The high tension that has been existing in Kivu between the gendarmes and civilians last week resulted in clashes that left more than 32 soldiers dead and many refugees fleeing into Burundi, Rwanda, and Uganda. The cabinet meeting at the weekend acknowledged that criminality is rampant in Zaire. The minister of information, Mr. N'Gongo Luwowo, termed the clashes in Kivu Province as regrettable. The confirmed reports say it is the guerrillas fighting to overthrow Mobutu who launched the fighting as from last week. Reliable information from people who fled Kivu into Congo say there has been a lot of intimidation and humiliation carried out by the gendarmes against civilians. The gendarmes, while on mission, they loot shops and homes, not forgetting violating women sexually. The gendarmes have erected roadblocks all over the provinces. It is at this roadblock that people are humiliated by being searched from head to toe. Many other belongings are looted from those who cross this roadblock. In the villages, gendarmes carry away goods in the [word indistinct]. This has made villagers afraid of the gendarmes. Civilians run to hide in the bushes as soon as a Gendarmerie vehicle is sighted coming into the village. In October last year, the same clashes erupted in Fizi leaving many shops and homes looted. The gendarmes carried away televisions, radios, and ornaments from persons they encountered on the roads. [end recording]
