FBIS3-33000 "drlat033__a94029" FBIS-LAT-94-033-A Document Type:Daily Report 17 February 1994 ANNEX Cuba GRANMA Cited on Subsidies, Losses in National Enterprises PA1602000894 Havana PRENSA LATINA in Spanish 1520 GMT 12 Feb 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY PA1602000894 Havana PRENSA LATINA Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Text] Havana, 12 Feb (PL) -- The Cuban State urgently needs to reduce expenses and increase income, GRANMA, the official mouthpiece of the Communist Party, asserts today. In an article, the newspaper reports that the subsidies given to national firms that have losses are the main contributing factor to the Cuban budget's imbalance. In 1993, the budget deficit amounted to $4 billion pesos (equal amount in dollars). In our case -- the article adds -- this means that more money has to be issued and this, in turn, increases the currency in circulation without material support, reduces the value of local currency and its purchasing power, increases labor absenteeism, and severely decreases labor productivity. GRANMA explains that the budget deficit and the printing of more money are not the only causes for the excess of liquidity as the fact that production and services have suffered a sharp fall in the past years must also be noted. However and undoubtedly, the former are key factors in the negative situation, it adds. The newspaper warns that expenses must be reduced very carefully because it is a very sensitive issue and actions to reduce expenses must not negatively affect the principles of social justice existing in Cuban society. Of course, it is indispensable that Cuban firms increase their economic efficiency, the article stresses. GRANMA favors the establishment of new taxes, the increase of previously existing taxes, and the implementation of new methods and ways to collect taxes more effectively. As always happens with controversial topics and advantages, issues that are so pressing and important to the country, logically, trigger debate and reflection, the article concludes.
