FBIS4-60798 "drsov084_d_94006" FBIS-SOV-94-084 Daily Report 29 Apr 1994 Regional Affairs N. Ossetian President on Meetings with Russian Leaders N. Ossetian President on Meetings with Russian Leaders LD2904180994 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1732 GMT 29 Apr 94 LD2904180994 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Valeriy Shanayev] [Text] Vladikavkaz April 29 TASS -- Russian President Boris Yeltsin intends to take part in the celebrations on the occasion of the 220th anniversary of Ossetia's voluntary joining of Russia and the 210th anniversary of the foundation of the city of Vladikavkaz. This was reported by President of North Ossetia Akhsarbek Galazov at his meeting with members of the Presidiums of the Supreme Soviet and the Government of the republic, and heads of the local self- government. Akhsarbek Galazov said the Russian president stressed that these memorable dates in the life of the multinational people of North Ossetia should be widely celebrated in the Russian Federation. "I informed Boris Yeltsin of the situation in the zone under state of emergency, the talks between the presidents and official delegations of North Ossetia and Ingushetia which began in the city of Nalchik on the initiative of the leadership of North Ossetia, and the concrete steps being made by the Ossetian side for the stabilization of the situation in the region," the president of North Ossetia noted. Akhsarbek Galazov also met with Russian Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin with whom he discussed a wide range of issues concerning the economic and social development of North Ossetia. Speaking on the results of the closed meeting of the Federation Council of the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation which considered the situation in the zone under state of emergency, Akhsarbek Galazov said that he categorically rejected the idea of the establishment of federal ruling in the Prigorodnyy district. He believes that this is a deadlock situation which may lead to a new tragedy in North Caucasus. The main direction in the settlement of relations between the peoples of North Ossetia and Ingushetia must be peaceful negotiations. According to the president of North Ossetia, it is necessary to continue the talks with the Ingush side. "The dialogue between the presidents of North Ossetia and Ingushetia, and official delegations of the two republics is yet another step on the road to peace and accord, and the possibility to untie a tight knot of problems," Akhsarbek Galazov pointed out. The date of the third round of talks in Nalchik is due to be fixed by the working groups of the two republics.
