FBIS4-19372 "drweu074_p_94004" FBIS-WEU-94-074 Daily Report 17 Apr 1994 GREECE Papandreou Reelected PASOK Leader; Address Cited Papandreou Reelected PASOK Leader; Address Cited NC1704174794 Athens Elliniki Radhiofonia Radio Network in Greek 1500 GMT 17 Apr 94 NC1704174794 Athens Elliniki Radhiofonia Radio Network Greek BFN [Text] Prime Minister Andreas Papandreou today was reelected chairman of PASOK [Panhellenic Socialist Movement] by a voice vote from those attending the party's third congress. In his speech, which closed the congress, Papandreou said that Greece with PASOK in the government is ready to enter the new century with security, prosperity, and democracy. PASOK is modern, united, collective, strong, democratic and open to the people. PASOK is ready to win the many successive battles that it will face in the near future. Papandreou said that PASOK was not born to become a [word indistinct] star in the country's public life. PASOK cannot be given away or inherited and will not be broken into pieces. Our congress' decision shows a return to the collective PASOK. Together we will guarantee, now and in the future, that this PASOK will have a direction and certain prospects. Papandreou concluded: We still owe this country a lot. With our congress, we have made another step forward. I am optimistic that despite the uncertainties of our times we will achieve our goals. Hope can become reality with a new PASOK that we will build together. It will be the PASOK of our dreams and our people's aspirations. During his departure from Athens' Olympic Stadium, Prime Minister Papandreou replied to a question about his trip to the United States. Papandreou said that he will stage a big battle [to explain his views on current issues], a friendly one of course, because the climate during the discussion of our national issues will be a friendly one. Of course, there will be an attempt to improve Greek-U.S. relations, which are good but could be better, he added. Replying to another question on the situation in Bosnia-Herzegovina, Papandreou said that the latest developments are very serious. I know that for the time being there is a cease-fire, which means that some people are using their heads, he said. However, the balance is very delicate, he added, and we cannot know what will happen from one moment to the next. Papandreou concluded by saying that Yugoslavia is one of the issues he will discuss with U.S. President Bill Clinton at the White House.
