FBIS3-8121 "dreeu043__a94009" FBIS-EEU-94-043-A Document Type:Daily Report 4 March 1994 ANNEX Caech Republic Formal Recognition of FYROM Reported AU0303192394 Prague CTK in English 1826 GMT 3 Mar 94 AU0303192394 Prague CTK Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Skopje March 3 (CTK) -- With the exchange of notes between the Foreign Ministries here today the mutual recognition and establishment of diplomatic relations between the Czech Republic and Macedonia [The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia -- FYROM], the former Yugoslav federation republic, was formally endorsed. The Czech Government already officially recognised Macedonia and announced its intention to set up diplomatic relations on ambassadorial level on March 2. In fact, the Czech Republic has practically recognised Macedonia by voting for its acceptance into the United Nations. The note was extended to the Macedonian side today by Director of the Czech Foreign Ministry Euro-Atlantic Division Ivan Busniak. He also handed his Macedonian colleagues a message from Czech President Vaclav Havel, Premier Vaclav Klaus and Foreign Minister Josef Zieleniec. Macedonia won independence two years ago after the breakup of the former Yugoslavia. It was practically the only Yugoslav republic which gained independence in a peaceful way. The position of Greece, which objects to the use by Macedonia of the name "Macedonia" and the state symbols which are considered by Greeks as their historical heritage prevents more rapid international recognition of Macedonia. "Given that the Czech Republic has resorted to this step under a certain concrete situation existing in the Balkans and especially in the southern part of the region, its decision to establish diplomatic relations with Macedonia is a recognition of the balanced, sober and realistic politics of the current Macedonian leadership," Busniak said. At the same time, he noted that the decision was not taking sides in the dispute between Macedonia and Greece, which has been going on for over two years. That is why the Czech Republic recognised Macedonia as the "former Yugoslav republic" and at the same time the Czech Government stated that it recognised Macedonia in its current borders. It is impossible to expect opening of embassies in Prague and Skopje in the near future primarily due to economic reasons, he said. "We are really greatly interested in opening an embassy in Prague. However we are building our diplomatic service practically from scratch and we have neither sufficient financial means nor necessary cadres," Macedonian Foreign Minister Stevo Crvenkovski said, adding that his country was able to open 25 representative offices abroad at the most.
