FBIS3-13672 "drnes053_m_94002" FBIS-NES-94-053 Document Type:Daily Report 18 Mar 1994 JORDAN Paper Criticizes UN Stand Toward Embargo on Iraq JN1803143294 Amman SAWT AL-SHA'B in Arabic 18 Mar 94 p 1 JN1803143294 Amman SAWT AL-SHA'B Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Editorial: "Security Council is Exacerbating the Security Situation in the Region"] [Text] Once again, the U.S. Administration and its NATO allies are interfering in the UN Security Council to prevent it from adopting a resolution to lift the unjust embargo on fraternal Iraq. Once again, the U.S. Administration has revealed its blatant hostility toward Iraq and the entire Arab nation. It is also clear that deeply ingrained grudges are behind maintaining the embargo on the people and children of Iraq in order to starve them and allow serious diseases to destroy hundreds of thousands of them. Since Iraq was totally committed to implementing many Security Council resolutions and cooperated with UN inspection teams to destroy their advanced strategic weapons, the Security Council member states could not find anything with which to justify their stand that is hostile to the people of Iraq and to validate the nonlifting of the unjust embargo on its sons and children. So, they armed themselves with false and baseless pretexts. The Security Council has proven, once again, that it is using double standards in dealing with international issues and that it is a tool devoted to serving the U.S. stand at the expense of persecuted and oppressed peoples. This exposed double standards in the Security Council's practices made it lose the confidence of nations and peoples of the world it. Therefore, Iraq had no other choice but to signal that it will reconsider its method of dealing with the Security Council and will resort to whatever could save its people and children from possible perdition if the embargo on it continues. It seems that Iraq is about to lose its patience toward the UN Security Council's stands and the role of the influential big countries in it. Moreover, it may resort to any stand that is not within the calculations of the U.S. Administration and its allies or within the calculations of the spiteful ones who continue to seek revenge from the the people of Iraq. From this premise, one can say that the U.S. Administration and its allies should reconsider their calculations, review their stand on the embargo, and seek to end it in order to avoid any developments with untold consequences.
