FBIS4-62617 "drsov096_a_94005" FBIS-SOV-94-096 Daily Report 17 May 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Russian Technology Show in U.S. `Real Triumph' Russian Technology Show in U.S. `Real Triumph' PM1705142594 Moscow KRASNAYA ZVEZDA in Russian 17 May 94 p 3 PM1705142594 Moscow KRASNAYA ZVEZDA Russian BFN [Report by Mikhail Pogorelyy of KRASNAYA ZVEZDA: "`Technologies From Russia' Astound United States"] [Text] The three-day conference "Technologies From Russia-94" in the United States has been a real triumph for Russian applied science and leading sectors of industry. But the exhibition of the latest achievements of Russian designers and manufacturers held simultaneously at the Washington conference center evoked even greater interest among American entrepreneurs. Over 200 Russian firms presented the latest developments in the sphere of machine building, the aerospace and medical industries, information technology, and communications for the verdict of U.S. specialists. Judging by the U.S. press reaction, what made the greatest impression on visitors to the exhibition was the "Thermoplane" [Termoplan] -- the product of a consortium of enterprises in the Russian oil and gas complex and mining and timber industries. It is an airship of a fundamentally new design in the form of a "flying saucer" capable of carrying 3.5 tonnes of freight or 15-20 passengers. The industrial version of the "Thermoplane" will be capable of delivering up to 600 tonnes of freight distances of up to 5,000 km -- superb transportation for the north and taiga and desert regions. Transatlantic businessmen also showed interest in units for the production of synthetic diamonds and metal-cutting tools produced on the basis of them, whose productivity is 7-10 times higher than metal tools. The six-wheeled minitractor employing technology from our "lunokhods" [moon buggies] also aroused public curiosity. In general, many of the projects on show at the exhibition were characterized by extensive use of conversion developments. Over two dozen contracts for joint production or further development of promising technologies and technical prototypes have already been signed as a result of the conference and exhibition.
