FBIS3-14811 "drsov039_b_94022" FBIS-SOV-94-039 Document Type:Daily Report 28 Feb 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political Issues Anpilov Comments on Release LD2602202994 Moscow INTERFAX in English 1823 GMT 26 Feb 94 LD2602202994 Moscow INTERFAX Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] At 17:15 Ilya Konstantinov, leader of National Salvation Front, left the investigation prison Lefortovo. A crowd which has gathered at the prison's gates actually embraced him. Saying "Thank you, thank you," Konstantinov came up to his car with great difficulties and moved away. When asked by journalists who will become Russia's next president, leader of the Liberal Democratic Party of Russia Vladimir Zhirinovskiy who was staying near Lefortovo answered that the people would make their choice. In Zhirinovskiy's words, the people will have to choose either him or Rutskoy. Leader of the Labor Russia and Russian Communist Labor Party Viktor Anpilov left Lefortovo at 17:25, just after Konstantinov. Hundreds of his supporters welcomed Anpilov. At an improvised meeting Anpilov declared: "The will of the single Soviet people has torn us from the torture-chambers. We have not recognized our guilt and do not recognize it. There is no guilt. We have chosen amnesty for the sake of accord and reconciliation in the society." "If I leave the prison and see that prices have dropped and people live better then Yeltsin was right. If prices raised and people live worse then I shall continue my struggle till the victory," declared Anpilov. Accompanied by a 400-strong crowd of his supporters Anpilov left the square before the investigation prison on foot. In his interview with Interfax Anpilov said that now his nearest task is "to organize working staffs for struggle with the regime." He intends "to travel throughout the country and to meet with working people." Anpilov believes that now Premier Viktor Chernomyrdin has occupied that place on the political arena which earlier was occupied by Ruslan Khasbulatov. According to Anpilov, it is necessary to hold early presidential elections because there is a new Constitution and a new president should swear on the new Constitution.
