FBIS4-61407 "drsov088_b_94019" FBIS-SOV-94-088 Daily Report 5 May 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Military & Nuclear Issues General Views New Weapons Manufacturing Problems General Views New Weapons Manufacturing Problems LD0505220094 Moscow Radio Moscow in Russian to Tajikistan 1600 GMT 5 May 94 LD0505220094 Moscow Radio Moscow Russian BFN [Text] Due to the economic difficulties in the country, the financing of military orders and research in Russia has been reduced approximately 10-fold. Some enterprises are simply refusing to produce military equipment. At the request of our correspondent, Colonel General Sergey Mayev, deputy commander in chief of the Russian land forces, comments: [Begin Mayev recording] Russia will be able to maintain its position among the leading manufacturers of new types of weapons. What is my conviction based on? First, the fact that we have always had very powerful scientific and technical ideas and our military industry is very powerfully developed. [end recording] As for the drop in financing, the general said that it is always 1.5-2 times lower than in the advanced Western countries. The difference has of course now greatly increased, but this gap, in the view of the general, can be bridged by the internal resources of defense enterprises. General Mayev does not reveal what resources they are, but he thinks that they include the use of high- technology, the search for unconventional production and scientific solutions, and the best possible implementation of conversion. As for the types of weapons which are a priority in the Russian Army and the defense industry, according to Gen. Mayev, deputy commander of the Russian land forces, it is a queston of two areas: The development of traditional types of weapons and the creation of promising systems. He said that the latter included high-precision weapons, means for gathering intelligence and managing forces. This is the principled approach taken by the Russian military toward the weapons issue within the new Russian military doctrine.
