FBIS4-63389 "drsov099_b_94004" FBIS-SOV-94-099 Daily Report 21 May 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political Issues Shakhray Discusses Dismissal Shakhray Discusses Dismissal LD2105202294 Moscow Ostankino Television First Channel Network in Russian 1700 GMT 21 May 94 LD2105202294 Moscow Ostankino Television First Channel Network Russian BFN [Interview with Sergey Shakhray, former Russian minister of nationalities and regional policy, by an unidentified correspondent; place and date not given; from the "Novosti" newscast -- recorded] [Text] [Correspondent] Sergey Mikhaylovich, many people link your dismissal as minister for the affairs of nationalities and regional policy with your stand at the talks with Chechnya, and with the situation in the North Caucasus in general. Is that really the case? [Shakhray] I do not think there is a direct link here. Even if there is, I still believe that decisions on personnel matters should be made by the prime minister and the president on their own, without prompts or recommendations from Chechen President Dzhokhar Dudayev, as some hinted was the case. I should like to say this is not a question of a certain personal stand of mine. There is a presidential message in which the policy toward Chechnya is formulated; there is a State Duma resolution. Therefore, I believe that all the federal bodies of state power--the Federation Council with its head, the State Duma, and the government--should act along the lines that have been defined, both in political and in legal terms, rather than conjure up some inventions of their own. After all, there should be elementary order in the country. Incidentally, my resignation statement is connected with the breach of elementary procedures and order. On the one hand, I have been retained as a deputy prime minister in charge of the nationalities and regional policy, and on the other, a minister of whom I have not heard anything has been appointed to cover the same area. [Correspondent] Do you foresee any more serious changes in the cabinet? [Shakhray] I believe there will be no drastic upheavals and reshuffles. [Correspondent] You mean, there will be no such proposal from the prime minister himself? [Shakhray] You may have noticed that the prime minister, using his vast experience, believes that an old hand is better than two new ones. He prefers not to change his personnel, his ministers, as one changes one's gloves, but to work with the cadres he has. My personal feeling is that Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin will not allow any reshuffles in the government.
