FBIS3-37591 "drsov035bb_94002" FBIS-SOV-94-035 Document Type:Daily Report 22 February 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Further on Talks NC2002135694 Baku TURAN in English 1128 GMT 19 Feb 94 NC2002135694 Baku TURAN Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Baku, February 19 (TURAN) -- The meeting of Azerbaijan Defense Minister, Mammadrafi Mammadov and Armenian Defense Minister, Serzh Sarkisyan through the mediation of Russian Defense Minister, Pavel Grachev took place the day before in Moscow. The representative of Armenians of Nagorno-Karabakh, Bako Saakyan attended the meeting as well. The meeting was conducted on the initiative of Pavel Grachev. As reported before, Grachev told both parties if they do not come to any agreement, he will never act as mediator in settlement of the conflict. Such strict policy of Russian Defense Minister compelled the warring parties to take the resolution on cease-fire. Azerbaijani and Armenian Defense Ministers agreed to stage-by-stage settlement of the conflict. According to Defense Ministry of Russian Federation, Russian plan of settlement of the conflict stipulates cease-fire, liberation of all occupied territories, sending of all foreign mercenaries at home. Representative of Russian Defense Ministry refused to comment on the question of a TURAN's correspondent "What do you mean by phrase `all occupied territories?'". He did not explain how the control over the sending of foreign mercenaries at home will be carried out. Together with this, the meeting of Azerbaijani and Armenian Defense Ministers continues in Moscow. Earlier this meeting was not scheduled and invitation of Armenian and Azerbaijani Defense Ministers to Moscow was a surprise. It should be mentioned that the meeting and the plan of settlement were not prepared in advance. When the Serbians of Bosnia accepted Russian offers, the tension round the capital of Bosnia eased a little. Presently Russia wishes to win one more diplomatic victory in another hotbed. Moscow will try to make Azerbaijan to adopt its plan on settlement the Armenian-Azerabaijani conflict stipulating introduction of Russian peacemaking troops in the region. As known, official Baku did not agree with that plan as it does not stipulate absolute liberation of occupied Azerbaijani territories.
