FBIS4-6123 "dreas074__a94055" FBIS-EAS-94-074-A Daily Report 18 April 1994 ANNEX Vietnam Czech Foreign Minister Begins Official Visit Czech Foreign Minister Begins Official Visit Meets With Leaders AU1704180594 Prague CTK in English 1648 GMT 16 Apr 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY AU1704180594 Prague CTK English BFN [Text] Hanoi, April 16 (CTK) -- Czech Foreign Minister Josef Zieleniec today continued his official visit to Vietnam with separate meetings with his Vietnamese counterpart Ngyuen Manh Cam, Premier Vo Van Kiet and Chairman of the National Assembly (parliament) Nong Duc Manh. At talks with the Vietnamese foreign minister Zieleniec raised the question of human rights. He informed Cam on receiving an open letter from the Czech section of the Vietnamese Renewal Party shortly before leaving Prague for Vietnam which contained a list of almost 150 people imprisoned in Vietnam for their religious convictions or for expressing disagreement with the Vietnamese Government. Zieleniec pointed to world discussion on the topic of the universal nature of human rights and rights arising from historical and practical life conditions. Zieleniec told journalists that he pointed to his Vietnamese colleague how important it was for the former Czechoslovakia that Western countries were concerned that human rights there were observed. He added, however, that the question of human rights did not hamper the Czech-Vietnamese talks as a whole and had adequate proportions. He said that Vietnamese leadership rejects the criticism in this respect using the arguments which had once been used by the Czechoslovak communist leadership. The essential part of the talks was dedicated to the possibilities for economic cooperation. The preparation of a trade agreement and an agreement on the employment of citizens of the other country were discussed. As soon as these two agreements are signed the preparation of an agreement on investment protection and the prevention of double taxation would start, Zieleniec said.
