FBIS4-19228 "drweu073_e_94003" FBIS-WEU-94-073 Daily Report 14 Apr 1994 UNITED KINGDOM Rifkind Warns Bosnian Serbs of Tough Action Rifkind Warns Bosnian Serbs of Tough Action LD1404221494 London PRESS ASSOCIATION in English 2157 GMT 14 Apr 94 LD1404221494 London PRESS ASSOCIATION English BFN [By Teilo Colley] [Text] Defence Secretary Malcolm Rifkind tonight warned Serb forces in Bosnia to stop interfering with the peacekeeping activities of UN troops or face tough action. He said it was too early to know if aggressive Serb responses to the NATO bombing of Serb targets in Bosnia were isolated incidents or part of an overall policy. But he warned: "The UN would have total support of its member states, including the UK, if some action was required to protect UN personnel." He was commenting amid reports that UN staff had been detained by Serbs and that Serb attacks on Tuzla airport had resumed since the weekend NATO attacks on their positions besieging the mainly Muslim enclave of Gorazde. "These incidents will continue to happen, and we shouldn't be surprised at that," he told reporters during an official visit to the United States, where he is attempting to persuade his Washington counterpart William Perry to send American peacekeeping troops to Bosnia. "We can't yet establish whether these were purely localised or part of a wider pattern.... We don't have the hard information at this time to know which this is," he said. But Mr. Rifkind made it clear that he believed the UN would be prepared to take decisive action to protect the 3,300 British troops and other UN personnel on the ground in Bosnia. Earlier, he told Channel 4 News: ``It's crucially important that the rights of UN personnel in Bosnia are entirely respected and the Serbs, and indeed others, should be under no illusion that the UN would have the total support of its member states, including the UK, if firm action was required to protect UN personnel. ``The UN are there in a humanitarian role and in a peacekeeping role. They cannot be treated in other than a proper and appropriate fashion and I think there will be no controversy in Britain or elsewhere if the UN was required to take tough measures to protect its own people.''
