FBIS4-65604 "drweu097_o_94001" FBIS-WEU-94-097 Daily Report 18 May 1994 CYPRUS UN's Feissel, Denktas Meet 18 May UN's Feissel, Denktas Meet 18 May Feissel Reviews Meeting NC1805210494 Nicosia Cyprus Broadcasting Corporation Radio Network in Greek 1600 GMT 18 May 94 NC1805210494 Nicosia Cyprus Broadcasting Corporation Radio Network Greek BFN [Text] Gustave Feissel, the UN secretary general's alternate special representative in Cyprus, held a meeting with Rauf Denktas in the occupied areas this afternoon. A statement Mr. Feissel made after the meeting indicated that again today Denktas did not give a positive reply on the implementation of the confidence-building measures. Mr. Feissel said that he and Denktas reviewed the Vienna meetings as well as the current state of affairs in the Cyprus issue. Mr. Feissel further noted: I told Mr. Denktas that the preparation of the UN secretary general's report is in progress. He also said that he has sent material that will help the secretary general to prepare the report which, as Mr. Feissel noted, should be issued in mid-April. Mr. Feissel added that he will keep in touch with Rauf Dentkas. Responding to a question, he said that he is not going to send any more material to New York on the current situation. Asked whether there was progress in Vienna--as Denktas, Ulucevik, and Madden had maintained in their statements--Mr. Feissel said: What is important is not progress or whether progress was made in Vienna but achieving agreement on the confidence-building measures package. This is what we worked for and this is our goal, because we will either reach an agreement or fail. Responding to another question, he said that again today there was no agreement, adding that today they and Rauf Denktas discussed many aspects of the packet, which he described as useful. He further noted that the secretary general's report will be ready by next week. He said that Denktas asked that they keep in touch, and added that until the secretary general issues his report Denktas has an opportunity to give a positive reply.
