FBIS3-13903 "drnes055_k_94001" FBIS-NES-94-055 Document Type:Daily Report 21 Mar 1994 IRAQ 'Aziz Says Meeting With UN Head `Beneficial, Positive' JN2103215694 Baghdad Republic of Iraq Radio Network in Arabic 2100 GMT 21 Mar 94 JN2103215694 Baghdad Republic of Iraq Radio Network Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Text] Deputy Prime Minister Tariq 'Aziz conferred with UN Secretary General Butrus Dr. Ghali in New York today. Following the meeting that lasted for more than one hour, 'Aziz told journalists that his meeting with the secretary general was beneficial and positive. He added that he briefed the secretary general on Iraq's position in detail, and emphasized that the United Nations should fulfill its obligations toward Iraq because Iraq fulfilled its obligations toward the United nations. 'Aziz emphasized that the main subject is lifting the siege on Iraq in accordance with Paragraph 22 of Resolution 687, especially since Iraq fulfilled all its commitments as stipulated in this paragraph and in accordance with the text and spirit of Resolution 687. The deputy prime minister explained that the Security Council should consider this in order to end the suffering of the Iraqi people. He said he briefed the secretary general on the full picture of Iraq's cooperation with the United Nations, especially the Special Commission and the international agencies operating in Iraq. 'Aziz added that Iraq's relations with the agencies are good, and the concerned authorities cooperate with these agencies, and this is evidence that Iraq is prepared to cooperate with the international organizations. 'Aziz said Iraq has furnished the evidence of its cooperation with the international community, in accordance with UN Charter and the international law, but some Security Council members still maintain their hostile position toward Iraq, and they should respect the Security Council resolutions and the international law and stop interfering in Iraq's affairs. The deputy prime minister expressed hope that the international community and all Security Council members would study the situation well in order to lift the siege on Iraq. Tariq 'Aziz also conferred with (Francesco Paolo Voly), Italian ambassador to the United Nations at his residence in New York today. 'Aziz is scheduled to meet later with Detlef Graf, German ambassador to the United Nations, and (Jean Damasan Besiman), Rwanda's ambassador and Security Council member.
