FBIS3-406 "drafr044_c_94014" FBIS-AFR-94-044 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Mar 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA Groenewald on Support for Participation MB0603145894 Johannesburg SAPA in English 1346 GMT 6 Mar 94 MB0603145894 Johannesburg SAPA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Report by Patrick Bulger] [Text] Johannesburg March 6 SAPA -- Afrikaner Volksfront [National Front, AVF] members had not entirely surrendered their efforts to persuade hardliners to take part in the April elections, AVF co-chairman Tienie Groenewald said on Sunday [6 March]. "There will be more efforts to convince people in the AVF that we should keep our options open," Gen Groenewald said. "There is little chance that the AVF as a front will register. But I don't think the matter has been put on ice," he said. The AVF decided on Saturday not to register for the elections after its leader Constand Viljoen had registered a Freedom Front for the poll. His decision was prompted by the move by the AVF's Freedom Alliance partner, the Inkatha Freedom Party, to register. Gen Groenewald said it was no secret that some AVF members supported taking part in the election ane that they would continue efforts to get the election boycotters round to their point of view. He said Monday's meeting with the alliance partners -- Bophuthatswana and the IFP -- would help determine the AVF's course of action. If the registration of the Freedom Front is allowed to lapse, the AVF may be the only alliance party staying out of the election. In an indication that it was preparing to register, Bophuthatswana has arranged for a late registration if the homeland's cabinet decides on Monday to join the elections. Gen Groenewald said the AVF would also be examining what results international mediation may be able to deliver. He said talks with the African National Congress on a political accord on a volkstaat [homeland] would continue. He said more successful talks on the issue on Friday might have secured AVF registration by giving Gen Viljoen something with which to convince his followers of the need to take part in the poll.
