FBIS3-17524 "drsov059_l_94002" FBIS-SOV-94-059 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Mar 1994 Kyrgyzstan President Nazarbayev's Visit to Moscow Previewed LD2503195494 Moscow INTERFAX in English 1732 GMT 25 Mar 94 LD2503195494 Moscow INTERFAX Language: English Article Type:BFN [From the "Presidential Bulletin" feature: Compiled by Nikolay Zherebtsov, Andrey Petrovsky; edited by Vladimir Shishlin] [Text] President Nursultan Nazarbayev attributes great significance to his future visit to Moscow during which he is scheduled to discuss bilaterl Kazakh-Russian relations, Interfax learned at the presidential press service. According to the latest reports of the press service, Nazarbayev is due to leave for Moscow on Sunday, 27 March. Earlier, INTERFAX learned at the Kazakh embassy in Moscow that Nazarbayev is expected to arrive in Moscow on Monday, 28 March. The program of the visit is being specified. Apart from scheduled negotiations with President Boris Yeltsin, Nazarbayev intends to meet with leaders of the Russian Federal Assembly's chambers Vladimir Shumeyko and Ivan Rybkin, as well as the patriarch of Moscow and all Russia Alexiy 2nd. The Kazakh president plans to deliver a lecture in the Moscow State University. According to the presidential press service, bilateral agreements on military-technical cooperation, peaceful use of atomic energy and cooperation in the spheres of culture, science and health care have been prepared for the signing in Moscow. Currently, Russian and Kazakh experts are holding intensive consultations in Moscow preparing documents on further use of the Baykonur cosmodrome and conditions of its lease by Russia. The documents are to be signed by the presidents of the two countries. Interfax learned that on Thursday head of the commission on talks with Russia, Kazakh Vice-Premier Galym Abilsiitov and head of the Russian delegation at talks, General Director of the Russian Space Agency Yuriy Koptev held a face-to-face meeting. Details of the talks have not been reported.
