FBIS4-9909 "drlat065_f_94001" FBIS-LAT-94-065 Daily Report 5 Apr 1994 El Salvador `Expert' Says U.S. Embassy Involved in Drug Network `Expert' Says U.S. Embassy Involved in Drug Network PA0504044194 San Salvador Canal Doce Television in Spanish 0300 GMT 5 Apr 94 PA0504044194 San Salvador Canal Doce Television Spanish BFN [Report by Edwin Gongora; from the "Up-to-Date" newscast] [Text] Drug expert Carlos Aviles reported that U.S. Embassy personnel are involved in a drug network in El Salvador. Aviles added that the incident which resulted in the death of Lieutenant Colonel Ramon Rivera can only be explained by his emotional state as Rivera's autopsy revealed that he had used a considerable amount of marijuana and meta-amphetamines. The drug expert said meta-amphetamines are only produced in the United States; thus the officer had brought it into the country and committed a serious crime by doing so. [Begin Aviles recording] How does this make the U.S. Army and Government look? How do they look when one of their soldiers brings meta-amphetamines from the United States to our country? Drug consumption....[pauses] Marijuana is a drug that Rivera could have bought here or in Guatemala, but it is still a very serious crime. This shows that our government must take a stronger stand and demand that foreign personnel in our country meet some basic requirements. [end recording] Aviles thinks our nation is not respected because we do not require U.S. military delegation members to pass drug tests. [Begin Aviles recording] I have said this for several months. I have said that we must more strict. Nationalism is not something found only in songs. It requires us to ensure that our Constitution and laws are respected. Unfortunately, nobody has paid any attention to me. Today, sadly we see how another scandal has erupted that has shown not only that the officer used marijuana and meta-amphetamines but that meta-amphetamines are powerful, synthetic stimulants that make cocaine look like breath mints. [end recoding] According to Aviles, U.S. diplomats should practice what they preach in U.S. counternarcotics efforts because this is not the first time U.S. Embassy personnel have been involved in drug-related incidents.
