FBIS4-21240 "jptdd017__l94083" JPRS-TDD-94-017-L JPRS Narcotics 17 March 1994 WEST EUROPE DENMARK South Americans Involved in Country's `Biggest' Cocaine Case South Americans Involved in Country's `Biggest' Cocaine Case Face More Charges 94WD0295C Copenhagen BERLINGSKE TIDENDE in Danish 17 Mar 94 p 6 94WD0295C Copenhagen BERLINGSKE TIDENDE Danish CSO [Article by Anders Wiig: ``Two Prisoners Involved in New Drug Case''] [Text] The narcotics police have arrested two South American drug smugglers who are serving long sentences in Vridsloselille. The narcotics police have arrested two South American drug gangsters who are serving long prison sentences in the state prison in Vridsloselille. Yesterday Detective Inspector Anette Vester brought the two prisoners before a judge at a closed preliminary examination in Copenhagen, after which both men were placed in isolation cells while the police investigate new charges against them. They are now charged with involvement in the smuggling and attempted smuggling of 500 grams of cocaine into Denmark while they were serving their sentences here. The smuggling of 200 grams failed because a courier was arrested on 31 January of this year. The two men's position on the new charges is not known. Both have previously smuggled large quantities of cocaine into Denmark and were sentenced by the Supreme Court. The now 26-year-old Colombian, Norman Caicedo Espinosa, was sentenced to six years in prison on 20 October for smuggling in 1.5 kilograms of drugs concealed in a skateboard. The 46-year-old Bolivian, Bitmarck Figuerca Frey, is serving eight years in prison. He smuggled 7.8 kg of cocaine, some in an attache case with a false bottom and some taped to his body. The jury did not believe his explanation that he thought it was gold. And the public prosecutor also pointed out that a quantity of gold corresponding to the cocaine that was found would have weighed 150 kg. Charged in Big Cocaine Case The two were charged in connection with the same group of cases in which 13 other foreigners and Danes have been charged with the smuggling and attempted smuggling of around 45 kg of cocaine. It is Denmark's biggest cocaine case and the alleged ringleader, another Colombian, was arrested in January--also while serving a sentence in Vridsloselille. Incidentally, there appears to be some confusion or uncertainty about Frey's and Espinosa's nationality, with Deputy Commissioner Peer Ivar Petersen of the narcotics police referring to them as a Spaniard and a Chilean prior to the court session.
