FBIS3-43497 "drafr005_c_94006" FBIS-AFR-94-005 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Jan 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA Roundup of ANC Organization Activities AVF Charges on `Terrorism' Disputed MB0601145294 Umtata Capital Radio in English 1200 GMT 6 Jan 94 MB0601145294 Umtata Capital Radio Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] The ANC [African National Congress] has lashed out at the Afrikaner Volksfront [National Front -- AVF] for accusing it of rewarding terrorism. This follows reports of Robert McBride's nomination to the ANC PWV [Pretoria, Witwatersrand, Vereeniging] region's election list. McBride, who planted a bomb at Magoo's Bar in Durban, is the second most popular candidate on the ANC's list. The AVF has called McBride a mass murderer. It says his popularity follows what the AVF calls the already alarming reemergence of convicted kidnapper Winnie Mandela. ANC spokesman Carl Niehaus says McBride is working hard for peace: [Begin Niehaus recording] Comrade McBride is making a very important contribution to work for peace in the eastern parts of Johannesburg, and he has been particularly strongly involved in helping to work for peace in areas such as Thokoza and Katlehong. In contrast the AVF, and specific members of that Volksfront, has consistently, despite the fact that they have the right to participate in negotiations, despite the fact that those people that they represent have throughout the history of this country had the vote, threatened with violence and with civil war. [end recording] Niehaus says the ANC PWV [Pretoria, Witwatersrand, Vereeniging] region nominations for the provincial legislature and the National Assembly include top ANC members. He says among them are Paul Mashatile, Obed Bapela, Tokyo Sexwale, and Ronnie Mamoepa. Niehaus says the nominations are provisional names: [Begin Niehaus recording] There is also a number of people who have been nominated by the PWV region for the National Assembly. Among these people are Janet Love, who is the deputy director of the Transitional Executive Council, and there are also a considerable number of other senior members of the ANC that have been nominated. The person who appears on the list as the most popular candidate for the provincial legislature of the PWV region is Obed Bapela. [end recording]
