FBIS3-4726 "dreas040_m_94003" FBIS-EAS-94-040 Document Type:Daily Report 1 Mar 1994 Thailand Prasong, PRC's Qian on APEC, Li Visit BK0103110394 Bangkok ZHONG HUA RIBAO in Chinese 1 Mar 94 p 8 BK0103110394 Bangkok ZHONG HUA RIBAO Language: Chinese Article Type:BFN [Excerpts] Qian Qichen, Chinese vice premier and foreign minister, asked Foreign Minister Squadron Leader Prasong Sunsiri, in his capacity as the chairman of the ASEAN Standing Committee, to use last November's Seattle meeting of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation [APEC] as a model for an APEC meeting to be held in Bangkok next year. The Chinese Government is satisfied with this although Taiwan sent an economic affairs official to participate. Qian Qichen and his delegation left Don Muang Airport at 1600 yesterday for Sri Lanka. After seeing Qian off at the airport, Foreign Minister Prasong briefed reporters on their talks. [passage omitted] The Thai foreign minister said that he had asked Qian to repeat the House Foreign Affairs Committee's invitation for the Chinese National People's Congress Foreign Affairs Committee to send a delegation to Thailand at an appropriate time. The Chinese delegation postponed its trip to Thailand following Taiwan President Li Teng-hui's visit to Thailand. Foreign Minister Prasong also asked Qian to convey a repeated invitation by Prime Minister Chuan Likphai for Chinese President Jiang Zemin to visit Thailand at an appropriate time. Foreign Minister Qian said that he will pass Thailand's goodwill to relevant authorities. Prasong also said that he will send an official invitation to Qian and his wife Zhou Hanqiong to attend the annual ASEAN foreign ministerial meeting in Bangkok in July. Prasong said that although Qian's stopover in Bangkok was short and there was a problem concerning the Taiwan president's visit, the two sides had reached a good understanding following a frank exchange of views. The Chinese did not see the issue as obstructing good relations between the two countries. This is only a phenomenon in the long-standing good relations between the two countries. Thai-Chinese cooperation in the political, economic, and trade fields will be further developed.
