FBIS3-23055 "jptot010__l94017" JPRS-TOT-94-010-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Terrorism FOUO 10 March 1994 LATIN AMERICA COLOMBIA FARC Promises Not To Kidnap Mayors PA2702135294 Santa Fe de Bogota Inravision Television Cadena 1 in Spanish 0130 GMT 27 Feb 94 PA2702135294 Santa Fe de Bogota Inravision Television Cadena 1 Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [From "TV Today Newscast"] [Text] The top leaders of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia [FARC] told TV Today that they will not sabotage the 13 March elections and that they are drafting a political proposal for the country. They also promised not to kidnap any more mayors, but they warned that they will continue with their military actions until they achieve a peace agreement. Because of legal reasons we cannot transmit the voices of those who were interviewed, but in the next report we are going to present the basic points of their proposals. The FARC members said they will not sabotage the next elections and guaranteed that people will be able to vote without any problems on 13 March. We absolutely agree the people should be allowed to express themselves by voting for the candidates they want as their representatives. We are not going to sabotage the elections because we believe it is the right of all our fellow countrymen, they said. The FARC members note that if some politicians were withheld it was only temporarily and only to discuss their positions. We may decide to talk to someone as it is the only option we have. That is part of the activities conducted by each front, they said. The FARC said they would continue to promote a proposal for a national reconstruction government. To achieve that they will continue to carry out propaganda activities and said the confrontation situation will continue. As long as there are no agreements the guerrillas will continue to operate. We are strong and have many possibilities, the FARC leaders said. They say steps have been taken to join the National Liberation Army, and they support the peace process between the government and the Socialist Renewal Current. They say anything done for peace in Colombia is fine with them. As for possible dialogues between the National Guerrilla Coordinating Board and the government, they say the time is not right and that the solution to the guerrilla problem is linked to the solution of the country's big problems.
