FBIS3-18853 "drweu046_n_94001" FBIS-WEU-94-046 Document Type:Daily Report 9 Mar 1994 NORDIC COUNTRIES Denmark Talks With Russia on Expanding Oil, Gas Cooperation 94P20476A Copenhagen BERLINGSKE TIDENDE in Danish 19 Feb 94 p III 2 94P20476A Copenhagen BERLINGSKE TIDENDE Language: Danish Article Type:CSO [Article by Kaj Skaaning: "Danish Help for Russian Oil Industry"] [Text] Energy Minister Jann Sjursen (Christian People's Party) and DONG [Danish Oil and Natural Gas (Consortium)] Chairman Holger Lavesen have begun talks with Russia's energy minister on using Danish expertise in the race for the enormous oil and gas reserves in Russia. The Russians are interested in attracting Danish know-how. Up to 40 percent of the world reserves of natural gas are found in Russia. In connection with the just-completed visit to Moscow, discussions were initiated among Sjursen, DONG Chairman Lavesen, and Russian Energy Minister Yuri Shafranik. "Among other subjects brought up were the possibilities for employing Danish expertise with respect to geological explorations and legislation dealing with the underground area," said Sjursen. "In the area of gas and oil, there may also be interest in cooperating with regard to know-how, exporting, organizational issues, and tariff systems, as well as to training and management programs." A number of enterprises and organizations from the Danish energy sector participated in the trip to Moscow, where at a seminar in the Russian energy ministry they had opportunity to present Danish technology and know-how in a number of energy-related fields, such as electricity and heat generating, district heating, renewable energy, oil and gas, as well as metering of consumer use. "In the conversations with Shafranik I received a very current briefing on the enormous problems plaguing the Russian energy sector. Among other ways, these are revealed in falling energy production and in the serious debt crisis experienced in many Russian energy companies," continued Sjursen. A cooperation agreement, which had been under preparation over a long period, was signed by the two ministers during the visit.
