FBIS4-24166 "drafr123_a_94005" FBIS-AFR-94-123 Daily Report 24 Jun 1994 CENTRAL AFRICA Rwanda Operation Turquoise Begins; Kigali Fighting Continues Operation Turquoise Begins; Kigali Fighting Continues French Troops Reach Refugees LD2406171394 Paris France-Inter Radio Network in French 1600 GMT 24 Jun 94 LD2406171394 Paris France-Inter Radio Network French BFN [Excerpts] [passage omitted] Ten thousand people demonstrated today in districts of Kigali under RPF [Rwandan Patriotic Front] control, shouting anti- French slogans. In the meantime, the French soldiers have continued their reconnaissance mission in the west of the country, in the zones under the control of Hutu-majority government forces. They have made progress along the border with Zaire, as reported by France Inter special envoy, Nicolas Poincare, who is in southwest Rwanda: [Begin Poincare recording] After they arrived in Cyangugu yesterday, the French troops moved toward the interior of the country today. The commandos have gone up north, toward a town about which they know almost nothing. They have been to the east, to a forest, where many Tutsi refugees have been hiding. Finally, they have been southward, toward Bugarama, where a refugee camp housing 15,000 people is reported to have been set up. These French soldiers are not in large numbers, they are about 200 paratroopers and marine commandos, but they seemed to be in a hurry to get on with their job. They have been met with exuberant welcome from the Hutus. The Hutu militiamen had French flags around their necks. The children carried banners on which Vive la France were written. At Nyarushishi refugee camp, the 8000 Tutsi refugees have also welcomed the French troops. These survivors of massacres were the first to be reached by the paratroopers yesterday afternoon. They said they have been under threat for weeks. [passage omitted] These refugees are now being protected by 60 heavily armed French paratroopers. They said they slept peacefully last night for the first time for weeks. [end recording]
