FBIS3-17661 "drsov060_h_94003" FBIS-SOV-94-060 Document Type:Daily Report 29 Mar 1994 Moldova New Parliament Meets; Party Platforms Outlined LD2903090894 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 0747 GMT 29 Mar 94 LD2903090894 Moscow ITAR-TASS Language: English Article Type:BFN [Report by ITAR-TASS correspondent Valeriy Demidetskiy] [Text] Kishinev 29 Mar, TASS -- The new Moldovan parliament, which was for the first time elected on a multi-party basis, met here today. It includes 104 parliament members. Most of them (56) represent the Agrarian-Democratic Party, which won the February 27 elections. The Agrarians hold that the parliament should first of all adopt a new constitution, create a legislative basis for economic reforms, and resolve the Dniester and Gagauz problem by granting a special legal status to those territories. The bloc of Socialists and the International Movement adhere to a very similar stand. They won 28 parliament seats due to the backing of the Russian-speaking population. Without calling in question the proposals of the Agrarian-Democrats, the Socialists believe that the parliament should first of all ratify all the agreements on the Commonwealth of Indepenent States (CIS) and on the economic union, should stop state language tests, feared by the non-indigenous population. They will be opposed by the Christian-Democratic People's Front and the bloc of Peasants and Intellectuals, a group which has split away from the front. They both call for unification with Romania. The front and the group have lost the trust of the electors and now have only nine and 11 parliamentary seats respectively. The split-away group is headed by ex-speaker Aleksandr Moshanu. These parties oppose the ratification of the CIS agreements, regarding them as an "attempt to revive the Soviet empire". However, the 20 seats they have in the new parliament will not give them a chance to effectively influence Moldova's policy. Petr Luchinskiy, one of the leaders of the Agrarian-Democratic Party, which has won the parliamentary elections, is expected to be elected parliament speaker. He is 54 years old and had formerly been first secretary of the central committee of the Communist Party of Moldavia and secretary of the CPSU Central Committee. Last year, after an acute parliamentary crisis, he was elected speaker of the previous Moldovan parliament. However, it was impossible to save that parliament which was elected during the Soviet period and which was torn asunder by contradictions. It had to be dissolved ahead of schedule.
