FBIS3-4906 "dreas041_d_94012" FBIS-EAS-94-041 Document Type:Daily Report 2 Mar 1994 South Korea U.S. Delays Announcing Agreement With DPRK SK0103232894 Seoul KBS-1 Radio Network in Korean 2210 GMT 1 Mar 94 SK0103232894 Seoul KBS-1 Radio Network Language: Korean Article Type:BFN [YONHAP from Washington] [Text] The U.S. Government had originally planned to announce the U.S.-DPRK agreement [habuimun] reached in their New York contact and to take simultaneous measures [tongsi chochi] according to it. However, it decided to delay the announcement on the simultaneous measures as North Korea proposed the South-North working-level contact to be held on 3 March, rescheduling the date we proposed earlier. A high-level diplomatic source in Washington said: The U.S. Government planned to announce on 2 March -- as soon as the International Atomic Energy Agency inspection team arrived in Pyongyang, and South-North working-level contacts were resumed -- a statement on the ROK Government's consent [chiji] to suspension of the Team Spirit exercise and on the decision to hold the third round of U.S.-DPRK talks on 21 March. However, it has decided to postpone the announcement of all simultaneous measures until tomorrow [3 March] because North Korea delayed the South-North dialogue, breaking its promise. It has been learned that the U.S. Government made this decision after consulting with the ROK as a result of North Korea breaking its promise and the United States took countermeasures [taeung pangan] on this. Sources said: All U.S.-DPRK agreements are linked with one another. If, either side, the United States or North Korea does not implement one of the simultaneous measures, all other agreements will automatically be invalidated. Regarding this, a senior officer of the U.S. State Department stressed again that the resumption of South-North dialogue on the nuclear issue by exchanging envoys of South and North Korea is one of the preconditions [chonje chogon] of the third round of U.S.-DPRK talks.
