FBIS3-41642 "jpten004___94112" JPRS-TEN-94-004 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Environmental Issues 17 February 1994 WEST EUROPE DENMARK Details on Projected EC Environment Agency Headquarters 94EN0067B Copenhagen BERLINGSKE TIDENDE in Danish 30 Oct 93 p 8 94EN0067B Copenhagen BERLINGSKE TIDENDE Language: Danish Article Type:CSO [Article by Pauli Andersen: ``EC Environmental Headquarters Ready in Spring''--first paragraph is BERLINGSKE TIDENDE introduction] [Text] Property next to Denmark's Environmental Researches in Roskilde has been designated as the site of the EC's environment agency. Project building plans are ready and the agency's management team has been selected. After many years' tug-of-war between the EC nations, the Council of Ministers has now decided that Denmark is to play host to the EC's environmental agency. Denmark has prepared itself thoroughly to be the host of the new EC institution. Therefore, it is expected that the office can open as early as next spring. The environmental agency and the city of Roskilde have prepared the way for locating the office beside Denmark's Environmental Researches in Roskilde. Building Plans Are Ready The plans for the building are already worked out and the director of Denmark's Environmental Researches, Henrik Sandbech, is prepared to help get the agency on its feet. Sandbech has been appointed the Danish member of the agency's management team. The new EC office will gather information on the quality of the environment in various EC countries. This will provide politicians background with which to evaluate which regions should receive priority in getting environmental help. ``The agency will be an institution independent of the political system. Regulations regarding the agency's functions have been approved, so now we are simply waiting to begin operations,'' said Sandbech. Influx to Roskilde In Roskilde, the district is engaged in an all-out cooperative effort together with the local trade development council to find housing for the incoming employees. ``We expect that the environmental agency will attract many new businesses to Roskilde. This includes EDP [electronic data processing] businesses and naturally businesses that deal with environmental issues,'' said Kim Valbum, director of the Roskilde Area Trade Development Council. On the national level, the placement of the agency in Denmark is seen as a sign that Denmark is on the leading edge when it comes to protection of the environment.
