FBIS4-682 "drafr072_c_94012" FBIS-AFR-94-072 Daily Report 14 Apr 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA Mediation Efforts `Collapse' Over Preconditions Mediation Efforts `Collapse' Over Preconditions Ramaphosa Blames IFP MB1404135794 Johannesburg SAPA in English 1336 GMT 14 Apr 94 MB1404135794 Johannesburg SAPA English BFN [Report by P Bulger] [Text] Johannesburg April 14 SAPA -- African National Congress Secretary General Cyril Ramaphosa on Thursday [14 April] blamed the Inkatha Freedom Party [IFP] for scuttling the international mediation process. Addressing a media briefing on Thursday afternoon shortly after Henry Kissinger said his mediation team was packing up and going home, Mr Ramaphosa said the IFP had tried to use the mediation to have the elections postponed. He said security force numbers were being increased in Natal/kwaZulu to implement the state of emergency that was imposed to ensure elections in the province. "The breakdown in the discussions around the terms of reference was occasioned by the IFP's insistence that postponement of the elections had to be addressed by the mediation process." He said the ANC was saddened by the mediation breakdown. "The mediation has failed and it has failed because the parties could not come to agreement on the terms of reference." Mr Ramaphosa said there had been a "misunderstanding" among the parties that had led to terms of reference being decided upon when there were deficiencies with these. The joint ANC, IFP and government task force had attempted to address these deficiencies but its proposals had been rejected by IFP leader Mangosuthu Buthelezi. "Chief Buthelezi's rejection of the timeframes clearly showed the IFP wanted the date of the election to be a subject of mediation," he said. Mr Ramaphosa said the ANC was prepared to conduct negotiations with the IFP before and after the elections. He said discussions were continuing in the joint task group about the future of Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini. But he warned that security force action would be stepped up. He said the ANC had made a last-minute proposal to the IFP to include it in provincial elections in Natal/kwaZulu and other provinces. This had been rejected. IFP senior negotiator Ben Ngubane warned that a political solution was necessary. He said the South African Defence Force had failed to crush the ANC. "There is no ruler in the world that can crush people's aspirations with brute force. The ANC is refusing us the opportunity and is pushing armed force as the solution. They are very wrong." Dr Ngubane said the ANC had agreed at the highest level to the original terms of reference negotiated by its national chairman Thabo Mbeki. "We are concerned that both the ANC and the government in this case have negotiated in very, very bad faith," he said. Dr Ngubane said he regretted what had happened to the mediation "but we had to stand firm".
