FBIS3-51548 "drlat015_f_94004" FBIS-LAT-94-015 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Jan 1994 El Salvador FMLN Leader Comments PA2101212094 San Salvador Radio Cadena YSU in Spanish 1800 GMT 20 Jan 94 PA2101212094 San Salvador Radio Cadena YSU Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Report by Ernesto Landos; from the "YSU Radio News" newscast] [Text] Joaquin Villalobos, FMLN [Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front] leader, said this Thursday a 60-percent reduction in U.S. aid to El Salvador may adversely affect the peace process. During the 11 years of armed conflict, the U.S. Government invested some $6 billion in El Salvador, and so it is inconvenient to cut that aid, Villalobos said. He said the country still greatly depends on foreign cooperation. [Begin Villalobos recording] We have signed peace accords, and aid will be reduced by 60 percent two years after signing. They invested $6 billion in 11 years and should at least invest 30 percent to 40 percent now. I believe this aid cutback is inconvenient. This may adversely affect the peace process. The country has been greatly affected by the war in terms of its economic production recovery. One cannot ask that the economic recovery be accomplished overnight. We still depend not only on our participation in international markets but also on foreign cooperation and remittances from Salvadoran emigres; therefore, reestablishing production capacity and our economic incorporation into international markets will take some time. We require a careful treatment to consolidate our process. [end recording] Meanwhile, the former FMLN commander said he has enough evidence to corroborate the involvement of one of the country's most prominent businessmen in the death squads. He also said they are expecting the accuser to testify before the corresponding court. [Begin Villalobos recording] What the defense has proposed now is that the accuser, Mr. (De Sol), say what he has to say. He has not yet appeared in court, but they want me to appear, and this is inconvenient. We remain strong and ready to defend ourselves. What happens is that the timeframe for the juridical process would not be the same as if deliberations were political. [end recording] Villalobos said that until the process receives the importance and juridical value it deserves, he will not present the evidence he has against the businessman.
