FBIS3-7342 "dreas059_c_94010" FBIS-EAS-94-059 Document Type:Daily Report 27 Mar 1994 North Korea U.S. Threat to Nonnuclear States Denounced SK2703081694 Pyongyang KCNA in English 0802 GMT 27 Mar 94 SK2703081694 Pyongyang KCNA Language: English Article Type:BFN ["Nuclear Hysterics"--KCNA headline] [Text] Pyongyang, March 27 (KCNA) -- The U.S. Defense Department in an annual report recently submitted to the President and Congress suggested that in case non-nuclear states developed and used chemical or biological weapons, they should "be restrained with the use of nuclear weapons." The hardliners argue that this measure would be "an effective means of curbing the development of chemical and biological weapons by non-nuclear states". This openly revealed their intention to threaten all the non-nuclear states with nuclear weapons and monopolize chemical, biological and nuclear weapons, stresses NODONG SINMUN today. The news analyst says: If this ambition of the United States is overlooked, the non-nuclear states cannot be free from U.S. threat of nuclear, chemical and biological weapons. The demand of the hardliners of the U.S. military for the "use of nuclear weapons" is patent proof of the falsehood of U.S. propaganda that it "is a peaceful state obliged to prevent nuclear proliferation worldwide." If the U.S. is really interested in promoting a fair implementation of the nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty [NPT], it must assure the international community it will not threaten the non-nuclear states with nuclear weapons and show its will for nuclear disarmament in practice. The U.S. nuclear threat to non-nuclear states increases the partiality of the NPT, which imposes unilateral restriction and inspection on non-nuclear states while recognizing the right of nuclear monopoly of the nuclear-weapon states. In abusing the NPT, the United States seeks to monopolize the nuclear weapons and, by wielding them at random, lord it over as the dominator of the world twisting all countries round its finger. Nuclear threat cannot be a cure-all.
