FBIS4-44039 "drweu122_q_94002" FBIS-WEU-94-122 Daily Report 23 Jun 1994 TURKEY Ciller Criticizes U.S. Conditions for Military Aid Ciller Criticizes U.S. Conditions for Military Aid TA2306194094 Ankara TRT Television Network in Turkish 1700 GMT 23 Jun 94 TA2306194094 Ankara TRT Television Network Turkish BFN [Announcer-read report over video] [Excerpts] Prime Minister Tansu Ciller has said that the government is trying to find rooted and lasting solutions to the country's problems. Addressing the True Path Party's parliamentary group, Ciller said that great advances have been achieved in the struggle against terror. [passage omitted] Ciller said the Turkish government will continue to support a just and realistic solution in Cyprus to be attained through negotiations. Noting that the Greek Cypriot side has adopted an intransigent attitude, Ciller added that the attitude adopted by Rauf Denktas, president of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, has proven that the Turkish Cypriot side favors peace. Ciller recalled that the U.S. Congress will be adopting a bill stipulating that the arms to be sent or sold to Turkey in 1995 cannot be employed for domestic security purposes and added: [Begin Ciller recording] I view these developments in the U.S. Congress as a great injustice against our country and people. The U.S. Senate is actually telling us that U.S. arms will not be employed in the struggle against the PKK [Workers Party of Kurdistan], which the U.S. Administration has explicitly described as a terror organization and whose international links are well known. Such a condition is tantamount to supporting terror and remaining a spectator to attempts to divide Turkey. [end recording] Ciller stated that the attitude of the U.S. Congress can be linked to efforts being exerted by a group acting with prejudice against Turkey and the Turkish people. She noted that the government will do all it can to rectify this injustice, adding that a delegation composed of parliamentarians and press officials will be sent to the United States to clarify the issue. [passage omitted]
