FBIS4-32130 "dreeu119_r_94003" FBIS-EEU-94-119 Daily Report 17 Jun 1994 ROMANIA Tinca Views Results of Visit to Washington Tinca Views Results of Visit to Washington AU1706202094 Bucharest Radio Romania Network in Romanian 1900 GMT 17 Jun 94 AU1706202094 Bucharest Radio Romania Network Romanian BFN [Report by Mircea Podina from Washington] [Excerpts] The visit paid to Washington by National Defense Minister Gheorghe Tinca at the invitation of his U.S. counterpart, Defense Secretary William Perry, concluded today. This morning, according to schedule, the Romanian delegation flew by helicopter to the Quantico Marine Corps base in Virginia. [passage omitted] Before leaving Washington, I asked him to draw up a balance of his visit in the U.S. capital. This is what he said: [Begin Tinca recording] I leave with the feeling that the majority of the things I proposed to achieve during this visit have been accomplished. First, I managed to convey the messages that had to be transmitted to the U.S. party regarding the military ties between Romania and the United States, between the Romanian Armed Forces and the U.S. Armed Forces, principally regarding our cooperation within the Partnership for Peace initiative and regarding security. Second, I leave with the conclusion that there is certain readiness of the U.S. party, especially at the Pentagon, to further relations with Romania on a number of levels. Now, in the beginning, our cooperation actions might not be too impressive or spectacular, but their evolution is an undoubted and serious one, and this will certainly allow us to attain the goals we set for us. I also leave with another conclusion, about which I am not very pleased, namely that Romania is far too little known in the United States, in Washington, and, especially among the political and security analysis circles, among the political analysis circles in the U.S. Congress. For this, I am not blaming the U.S. party, heaven forbid, and I am not blaming ourselves either. This is rather meant as an encouragement for us to do more and in a more organized way to make known our way of thinking in our relations, because as I have found, there is certain interest for such relations, so they have to be disseminated among the U.S. political media and among the analysis circles there. The brightest aspect of my visit was the pleasure of handing over an invitation letter to Defense Secretary William Perry to visit us in Bucharest. In July, he will make a tour of certain Eastern European countries, and it is my conviction that sometime in July he will also come to Bucharest. [end recording]
