FBIS3-9849 "dreeu061__a94035" FBIS-EEU-94-061-A Document Type:Daily Report 30 Mar 1994 ANNEX Slovakia Kovac on `Absence of Political Ethics' AU3003075294 Prague CTK in English 0630 GMT 30 Mar 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY AU3003075294 Prague CTK Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Bratislava, March 29 (CTK) -- Slovakia must face growing problems, but the situation in general is better than anticipated by many people, President Michal Kovac said in an interview with ASSOCIATED PRESS on Tuesday [29 March]. Kovac admitted that Slovakia, which is moving towards democracy and strengthening human rights, has been often criticized by foreign observers in these fields. "However, we have confirmed that democratic institutions are working in Slovakia," said Kovac, hinting at the recent, formally democratic removal of Vladimir Meciar' cabinet. "The absence of political ethics" constitutes a large portion of the whole problem, Kovac stated. The political parties of which none has absolute majority in parliament have not able to arrive at a compromise and to lead the country quietly to the independent, market economy. As a result, during the 15 months of independent Slovakia foreign investments have been radically curbed and privatization has slowed down, Kovac said. He expressed the conviction that Slovakia had passed the worst and the results for 1994 would confirm this. "A number of experts predicted the collapse in Slovakia by one year after independence, but this has not occurred," he stressed. Regarding Meciar, whose removal he had initiated in parliament, Kovac stated that "he was a source of political instability and confrontation between the individual groups." Meciar's fall was caused by his inability to cooperate with other politicians. Kovac also admitted that the Movement for a Democratic Slovakia (HZDS), among whose founding fathers he was, can return to power after the autumn elections. He noted that it would hardly be possible without the assistance of other parties, adding that in such a case "the new premier must not be necessarily just Mr Meciar." The new government must revive economic reforms and ensure observation of human rights in order to increase the credibility of the country in the eyes of the West and ensure the influx of economic assistance. Kovac refused demands by some ethnic Hungarian representatives for a measure of territorial autonomy. He supported the first steps of the current government to ease the relations with neighboring Hungary which were kept strained by Meciar due to the alleged territorial demands by Budapest. "Both countries must contribute to stability in region," Kovac concluded.
