FBIS4-19194 "drweu073__a94005" FBIS-WEU-94-073-A Daily Report 14 Apr 1994 ANNEX United Kingdom Major: Ministers `Can Lie' to Commons Major: Ministers `Can Lie' to Commons PM1404120294 London FINANCIAL TIMES in English 14 Apr 94 p 9--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY PM1404120294 London FINANCIAL TIMES English BFN [James Blitz report: "Major Backs `Exceptional' Commons Lies"] [Text] The prime minister has for the first time publicly backed a recent claim by Mr William Waldegrave, the minister responsible for open government, that ministers can lie to the Commons in exceptional circumstances. In a letter to Mr Giles Radice, the Labour MP for Durham North, Mr John Major says: "It is clearly of paramount importance that ministers give accurate and truthful information to the House." But the prime minister's letter goes on to say: "If they knowingly fail to do this, then they should relinquish their positions except in the quite exceptional circumstances of which a devaluation or time of war or other danger to national security have been quoted as examples." The prime minister responded to Mr Radice after he had written asking whether it was the duty of ministers not to mislead parliament and to resign if they do so. The first exchange of letters followed a statement made by Mr Waldegrave to the Treasury and civil service select committee, of which Mr Radice is a member, that ministers had to lie to the Commons in exceptional circumstances. In particular, Mr Waldegrave claimed that Lord Callaghan, the former Labour prime minister, had told untruths during the devaluation crisis of 1967. This has been fiercely denied by Lord Callaghan, who was chancellor at the time. He claims that he chose his words on the issue very carefully, and that he has never lied to the Commons. Until now, the prime minister has given only a guarded endorsement of Mr Waldegrave's comments. On a BBC programme in March, Mr Major said: "Mr Waldegrave answered an intelligent question frankly about what had happened under another government a quarter of a century ago." Asked whether lying could be justified in parliament, he said: "Nobody can and nobody does."
