FBIS4-61189 "drsov086_e_94003" FBIS-SOV-94-086 Daily Report 3 May 1994 UKRAINE International Affairs Kravchuk, French Envoy Discuss Regional Security Kravchuk, French Envoy Discuss Regional Security WS0305150694 Kiev Ukrayinske Radio First Program Network in Ukrainian 1400 GMT 3 May 94 WS0305150694 Kiev Ukrayinske Radio First Program Network Ukrainian BFN [Text] Ukrainian President Leonid Kravchuk has received Alain Lamassoure, French minister delegate for European affairs. The officials held a conversation that raised a number of important issues related to the further development of Ukrainian-French cooperation. For Ukraine, the president emphasized, relations with European states, (?including) France, are very important. This is why Ukraine appreciates so much France's attitude toward the trilateral declaration signed by our state [words indistinct]. We also appreciate efforts by France, and its president, Francois Mitterrand, to help Ukraine destroy nuclear weapons as well as develop its nuclear power engineering system and liquidate the consequences of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant accident. Following the meeting with the president, most of which was held without media representatives, the guest answered questions from journalists. In particular, he emphasized that in his opinion, there are no differences between the French and Ukrainian points of view on the danger of instability on our continent. We, Alain Lamassoure declared, are for a Europe serving as the center of peace, stability, and prosperity so that relations among states are based on equality, democratic principles, and friendship, and so that there are no blocs forming on European territory. France itself, the guest continued, came up with an initiative to hold a conference on problems of stability and security in Europe, at which representatives of those countries could discuss these problems. [Words indistinct] confirmation of Leonid Kravchuk that your country will participate in this conference and work there constructively. The meeting was attended by Michel Peissik, French ambassador extraordinary and plenipotentiary to Ukraine.
