FBIS3-40732 "jpnea005___94039" JPRS-NEA-94-005 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Near East & South Asia INDIA: Press Reaction to GATT Signing INDIA 2 February 1994 SOUTHERN REGION Opposition to GATT Signing Detailed 94P50085A Madras DINAMANI in Tamil 16 Dec 93 p 1, 7 94P50085A Madras DINAMANI Language: Tamil Article Type:CSO [Editorial: "Dunkel Plan: Commotion In The Parliament"] [Text] The BJP [Bharatiya Janata Party] and other opposition parties raised vehement objections in the parliament to the signing of the `Dunkel draft' by the central government. There was widespread agitation following this in both the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha. In a short period of two hours, the Lok Sabha had to postpone proceedings three times, the Rajya Sabha, twice. In the Rajya Sabha, the first to raise issue were JD [Janata Dal] and the members of the LF [Left Front]. They demanded to know if the administration had accepted the Dunkel proposals. They demanded that Prime Minister Rao come in person to the parliament to explain the government's position. Those present from the BJP also supported this demand by JD and LF. It was believed that the government had already adopted the draft, and the JD members had worn black arm-bands to show opposition to this. In the Rajya Sabha, Jaipal Reddy (JD), and Sugumal Sen (CPI-M) [Communist Party of India-Marxist] raised this issue. There were press reports of the cabinet committee appointed to investigate financial matters approving the signing of the draft, and they demanded to know if this was true. Jaipal Reddy equated the signing to the staking of India's sovereignty. As this statement led to agitation and disorder in the House, Deputy Speaker Najma Heptullah postponed the proceedings. When they re-convened, opposition members raised the same issue again. They demanded that the government issue a statement on this matter, and that the Commerce Minister come in Person to explain the matter in the House. Following this, Sayyad Chipte Razi, deputing for Heptullah pacified the assembly by announcing that Najma Heptullah had conferred with Commerce Minister Pranab Mukherji, who had agreed to give a briefing the next day. Jaipal Reddy, Subrahmanyam Swamy, Ashok Mitra, and others did not accept this and threatened to paralyze proceedings if they were not told immediately if the government had decided to sign the agreement or not. This was followed by great confusion in the parliament. Since the situation kept deteriorating, and nothing could be accomplished, the speaker had to postpone the proceedings once again to the next day. `Dharna' by Political Parties: On Wednesday, many political parties and farmers' groups conducted a "Dharna" [picketting] in Jantar Mantar opposing the Dunkel proposals. They insisted that the government not sign the draft, and demanded a total rejection of it. Samajwadi Party's general secretary Raghu Thakur, Telugu Desam Parliamentary Party leader, V.S. Rao, CPI-M leaderAshok Mitra, Indian People's Front's national general secretary, Kumudini Pati, and Bharatiya Kisan Sangh-Delhi Branch leader Mahavir Singh participated in this dharna-agitation. Leaders who spoke in the dharna gathering accused the government of selling the country out instead of safeguarding its interests by opposing schemes like the Dunkel plan. There were nation-wide agitations opposing the Dunkel proposals.
