FBIS4-15020 "drsov066_b_94021" FBIS-SOV-94-066 Daily Report 6 Apr 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Economic Issues Chernomyrdin `Document' on `Economic Security' Chernomyrdin `Document' on `Economic Security' MK0604113494 Moscow MOSKOVSKIY KOMSOMOLETS in Russian 6 Apr 94 p 1 MK0604113494 Moscow MOSKOVSKIY KOMSOMOLETS Russian BFN [Aleksandr Podzharskiy report: "Chernomyrdin Wants To Be Economically Secure. MOSKOVSKIY KOMSOMOLETS Has Sparked a Witch-Hunt in Government"] [Text] An extremely intriguing government document marked "Not for the Press" has found its way into the hands of MOSKOVSKIY KOMSOMOLETS. The directive issued by Chernomyrdin as early as last March sets forth fairly ambiguous things that could not but elicit our curiosity. What is hidden behind the trite words about "The Fundamentals of a Strategy To Ensure the Economic Security of the Russian Federation?" And why did Viktor Chernomyrdin task the Economy Ministry and the Security Council's Interdepartmental Commission on Economic Security with drawing up within two weeks (!) the requisite organizational-methodological documents? As I understand it, the organizational-methodological documents are just as needed for drawing up a state's general strategy as an umbrella is for a fish. What is the meaning of a provision instructing the Finance Ministry to finance scientific developments? Scientific developments are one thing, money is quite another. According to MOSKOVSKIY KOMSOMOLETS information, apart from this ambiguous paper Chernomyrdin has signed another two documents marked "Top Secret" and "Of Special Importance" that are written in much more specific language. Bearing in mind Mirzayanov's sad fate, we only know that they deal with the creation of an Economic Security Service at the Economy Ministry (that it will be part of the Economy Ministry is clear even from our paper, which obliges federal agencies to submit their proposals to it by 1 May). Do you see the difference -- fundamentals there and a security service here? Then everything comes into focus. Including provisions stipulating that a democratic order be maintained in any conditions (although this is at odds with the Constitution -- a state order is to be chosen by the people, not by Mr. Chernomyrdin) and that the production capacities of the defense sector be preserved in those same any conditions. The Economic Security Service, carefully hidden behind a veil of secrecy for some time to come (otherwise why make its creation such a mystery?) will defend the interests of the government to the last man. A downright economic surveillance. And this despite the fact that we already have economic counterintelligence as part of the Federal Counterintelligence Service [FCS], although we have learned that the Chekists have also been directly been involved in the effort. But the security of the state is one thing, that of the government quite another. Down with conversion and democracy! Long live democracy under V.S. Chernomyrdin! P.S. Valentin Sergeyev, chief of the government's press service, having failed to answer any of our questions, was completely bewildered and long tried to find out where MOSKOVSKIY KOMSOMOLETS obtained the secret document. The next day he said that the staffer who had given us the directive (?!) was identified and would be severely reprimanded. There you are -- the first case for the fledgling service.
