FBIS4-4270 "drchi083_s_94005" FBIS-CHI-94-083 Daily Report 28 Apr 1994 Northeast Region Liaoning Secretary Addresses Party School Work Conference Liaoning Secretary Addresses Party School Work Conference SK2904031394 Shenyang Liaoning People's Radio Network in Mandarin 1000 GMT 28 Apr 94 SK2904031394 Shenyang Liaoning People's Radio Network Mandarin BFN [Text] The provincial party school work conference ended this afternoon. At the conference, Gu Jinchi, secretary of the provincial party committee, gave an important speech on strengthening cadres' study and party school work. Gu Jinchi pointed out: It is necessary to fully understand the extremely importance of strengthening cadres' study during the crucial period of reform and development. He said: At present, China is in a crucial period of reform, opening up, and the modernization drive. The new situation has set forth new study tasks for us. In the process of implementing the strategic objective of carrying out the second pioneering program, we have come across with a series of new situations and new problems. All cadres must exert efforts to study and unceasing improve themselves so as to meet the new demands and to undertake new tasks. Gu Jinchi stressed: It is necessary to deeply implement the principle of integrating theory with practice and raise the work of party schools to a new height. He said: We must make painstaking efforts to properly solve the issue of integrating theory with practice, realistically combine theoretical study with Liaoning's reality, and guarantee substantial results in the study. At present, special efforts should be made to study volume no. 3 of the Selected Works of Deng Xiaoping and realistically clarify what is socialism and how to build socialism. Gu Jinchi also stressed: Party committees at all levels should further strengthen leadership over party school work. He expressed hope that party committees at all levels and party schools will further recognize the situation, clearly define the tasks, deepen reform, work in a down-to-earth manner, push Liaoning's party school educational undertakings to a new stage, and make greater contributions to promoting reform, opening up, and the second pioneering program in the province.
