FBIS4-41675 "drsov124_a_94008" FBIS-SOV-94-124 Daily Report 27 Jun 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Kozyrev Defends Decision on Partnership for Peace Kozyrev Defends Decision on Partnership for Peace LD2706174294 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service in Russian 1603 GMT 27 Jun 94 LD2706174294 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service Russian BFN [By ITAR-TASS diplomatic correspondent] [Text] Moscow, 27 June -- Foreign Minister Andrey Kozyrev trenchantly rejected State Duma attempts on 22 June to question the legitimacy of Russia signing NATO's Partnership for Peace program. On that day, the communists' faction called for the signing of this document "to be deemed invalid," comparing it with the "Barbarossa Plan," under which Hitler invaded the USSR. In the words of the minister, who stressed that he was speaking as a deputy of the lower house of parliament, "It was simply the voice of traitors" speaking at that 22 June session of the State Duma. A group of politicians, he went on, took the liberty of speaking utterly disgracefully. It appears that some people would like to revive the image of the enemy. "We are talkin here of red- brown [communist-fascist] political mongrels. The communists left millions of people to rot in camps and the fascists killed millions of people." Andrey Kozyrev said that "one of the parties involved in all of this or, rather, its faction in the State Duma, enjoys material and organizational support from neofascists in the Federal Republic of Germany." It is no coincidence, he added, that "in his book, Zhirinovskiy proposes giving away Russian lands--Vyborg and Kaliningrad.... This is probably his German neofascist friends ordering the return of Russian lands, the trade in Russian lands." Noting that he will answer for his words, the minister said: "I do not think this is the stance of the faction, but it is the stance of certain politicians. This is treachery against Russia, and it was this that came from the red-browns on 22 June." In the minister's words, Russia is building partnership relations, based on equality, dignity and, acknowledgement of its role as a great power, both in the West and the East. Everyone is well aware that our cooperation with NATO is an element of a global picture. It represents no threat at all to our neighbors. On the contrary, it is an element of improvement and cooperation, Andrey Kozyrev added.
