FBIS3-753 "drafr049_c_94012" FBIS-AFR-94-049 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Mar 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA Mangope Ousted; Interim Administrator Appointed Mangope Comments on Elections MB1203184494 Johannesburg SABC TV 1 Network in English 1800 GMT 12 Mar 94 MB1203184494 Johannesburg SABC TV 1 Network Language: English Article Type:BFN ["Exclusive" interview with Bophuthatswana President Lucas Mangope by SABC correspondent Danie Hefers on 12 March; place not given -- recorded] [Text] Bophuthatswana President Lucas Mangope says he is still in control of his country. In an exclusive interview with TV news reporter Danie Hefers this afternoon, he blamed his opponents for the violence in Bophuthatswana. He also denied rumors that he was in hiding. President Mangope told Danie Hefers that a final decision on participating in the election stil had to be made. [Mangope] I want to emphasize that it will be Parliament in its wisdom that will decide whether to take part in these elections or not, and Parliament will have also, of course, to decide on what are the logical consequences of a decision to take part in those elections. [Hefers] Do you still see a future for the Freedom Alliance after all that's happened now? [Mangope] I think because of what has happened the Freedom Alliance should be even stronger, because I think we are fighting forces, for want of a better description, forces that are there really to bring about anarchy, to intimidate, to bring the true character of communism, to make the future bleak for everybody. [Hefers] Mr. President, a lot of damage have been caused by the violence this past week. Who's going to pay for all this? [Mangope] I think the price is going to be high. There's no doubt about that. I think my people are going to suffer as a result of what has happened. Now you say: Who is going to pay for this? I think the children of my people are going to pay for this, in that schools have been burned down, in that shopping facilities have been burned down, in that facilities that are scarce, facilities that we don't readily find in Africa, have been destroyed. And I say to the shame of the African National Congress [ANC], their leaders, the Communist Party, and even, as I said, the Nationalist Party, my people are going to suffer -- that unfortunately it will be too late, it will be too late unfortunately. But there is no doubt that they are going to suffer. [Hefers] Mr. President, I've been in the country since Monday; I've been through all the violence. I've spoken to people. I heard people shouting, asking for your head. Is there blood on your hands after all the violence this past week? [Mangope] I have no feelings of animosity to anybody, but I want also to emphasize that I have no fear, whatsoever. I know that what I have done has been right, I have said to my people, I have slaved for them, I have established here sites of developments, that is not readily come by, as I say, in most African countries. I have no regret for what I've done.
