FBIS4-15208 "drsov067_a_94020" FBIS-SOV-94-067 Daily Report 6 Apr 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Moscow Not To Play Special Role in Tajik Talks Moscow Not To Play Special Role in Tajik Talks LD0604180294 Moscow INTERFAX in English 1416 GMT 6 Apr 94 LD0604180294 Moscow INTERFAX English BFN [From the "Diplomatic Panorama" feature: Reports by diplomatic correspondents Dmitriy Voskoboinikov, Igor Porshnev, Vitaly Trubetskoy, and others] [Text] Moscow does not want to play any "special role" in the talks between the Dushanbe Government and the opposition. The talks will proceed by the two plus one formula, where two are the Tajik factions and one is the U.S. under whose auspices the talks are held. According to a senior Russian Foreign Ministry official, Russian diplomats will not be present at the talks unless UN representatives want them to. "They attend the Wednesday session because (Ramiro Perez)-Bollon, UN Secretary General's special envoy, invited them. But as early as Thursday the talks may continue without them," the diplomat said. He said that Russia had probably played the decisive role at the stage of setting the scene for the talks. "This does not imply, however, that our role will be as important as that at subsequent stages. We in Moscow believe that all the observers, Russia, Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Afghanistan, Pakistan and Iran, have equal rights. We do not intend to impose our views. Our goal is peace in Tajikistan and around it." The diplomat could not say how long the Moscow round of talk will take. "No timetable for the talks has been set but we hope that the two sides will achieve significant results in Moscow. They seem to be in the right mood for that," he said. The diplomat explained that a comprehensive solution was not on the Moscow agenda. "What is important is that the two sides have sat for a talk. If they could agree on ending the hostilities, the Moscow round would be regarded as a success," he noted. According to the diplomat, "the dialog that has started is a positive event for the sole reason that it will show who really wants a national reconciliation in Tajikistan. It will be an acid test which cannot be cheated.
