FBIS3-36641 "drsov026_a_94020" FBIS-SOV-94-026 Document Type:Daily Report 8 Feb 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Kozyrev Condemns `Ethnic Cleansing' in Baltics LD0802133594 Moscow INTERFAX in English 1228 GMT 8 Feb 94 LD0802133594 Moscow INTERFAX Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Russian Foreign Minister Andrey Kozyrev has condemned "ethnic cleansing," which he believes is being carried out in Estonia and Latvia. He said in response to journalists' questions put to him before his departure to Tashkent and Almaty: "Approximately one third of the population (in Estonia and Latvia -- IF) is marked by ethnic belonging. This is to say the Russian-speaking population -- Russians, Ukrainians, Belarusians, Jews, and even Finns who are refused citizenship. They would like to acquire such citizenship. They are refused for only one reason -- the ethnic one. If this is not ethnic cleansing, then what would you call it?" "If people are called `occupants' and `aliens,' they start to act that way. This results in instability," the foreign minister emphasized. He mentioned another example proving the violation of the Russian-speaking population's human rights. "Everyone was to serve in the army in the former USSR. Now they want to expatriate from Estonia and Latvia not all former Soviet servicemen but only Russian-speaking ones. It is obvious that this has been based on ethnic reasons rather than political ones," Kozyrev remarked. In his words, "the attempts to repay ordinary people for the Stalin regime's crimes were political stupidity." "I recognize that the Stalin regime did commit crimes. However, we cannot forget that they were committed by the political power -- Stalin on the one hand and Hitler on the other, who had concluded the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact. It is unacceptable that thousands of ordinary people have to pay for these crimes 45 years later and that the ethnic principle is used." Kozyrev pointed out that Russia could not remain indifferent to all that was happening near its borders. "The world must pay attention to this inhuman and potentially dangerous situation," the Russian foreign minister concluded.
