FBIS4-17750 "drsov082_b_94023" FBIS-SOV-94-082 Daily Report 27 Apr 1994 RUSSIAN NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political Issues Urges Intelligence Service To Provide Security Urges Intelligence Service To Provide Security LD2704160894 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service in Russian 1516 GMT 27 Apr 94 LD2704160894 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service Russian BFN [Text] Moscow, 27 Apr (ITAR-TASS) -- Armed conflicts near Russia's borders, which in some places are threatening to spread onto its territory, represent a direct threat to the country. In this connection, Russia's President Boris Yeltsin stressed today at a meeting with the heads and employees of the Foreign Intelligence Service [FIS], that the Russian intelligence service must reveal, in good time, the moving forces behind each conflict and the opportunities for settling it by political means and by compromise. Speaking about the intelligence service's tasks in guaranteeing the Russian Federation's national security, the president noted that the country's leaders need in-depth and accurate assessments of foreign states' approaches toward Russia and the processes occurring there. "It is important to uncover and skilfully frustrate outside attempts to influence the situation in our country," Boris Yeltsin stressed. The president considers that the intelligence service can also make a weighty contribution toward securing Russia's economic security. In its economic interests, he continued, it is much more important to guarantee free access to other countries' markets for goods and other Russian output. Boris Yeltsin is convinced that the resolution of this problem is an important task both for foreign policy and for the intelligence service. Russia's president also named the uncovering of organized crime links with European and American criminal clans as an important task for the FIS. Partnership links with foreign secret services may play a useful role in combating international organized crime. The FIS, Boris Yeltsin stated, "has such powers and is able to use them, as we know."
