FBIS4-46081 "jptnd013___94114" JPRS-TND-94-013 JPRS PROLIFERATION ISSUES 28 May 1994 INTERNATIONAL IAEA Attempts to Inspect DPRK Fuel Rods Replacement IAEA Attempts to Inspect DPRK Fuel Rods Replacement Virtual Failure of DPRK-IAEA Negotiations Conceded SK2805031394 Seoul YONHAP in English 0302 GMT 28 May 94 SK2805031394 Seoul YONHAP English BFN [By Yi Tong-min] [Text] Seoul, May 28 (YONHAP) -- The North Korean nuclear dispute became a life-or-death situation Saturday with Seoul officials conceding the virtual failure of Pyongyang-International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) negotiations. IAEA Director-general Hans Blix reported to the U.N. Security Council that North Korea could finish unloading nuclear fuel rods within days and thus destroy the chances of measuring what went on at the five-megawatt reactor during the past eight years of operation. The IAEA, the United States and South Korea have made clear that if such measurement was not guaranteed, they would seek countermeasures through the U.N. Security Council. The Security Council already held informal consultation Friday evening and will meet again early next week to discuss the situation based on Blix's report. Foreign Minister Han Sung-chu chaired a hastily called meeting of vice and assistant ministers and his nuclear negotiating team to discuss the latest report from Vienna. Officials said the IAEA is likely to issue a final statement sometime in the morning from Vienna. If the agency judges that the chances of future measurement are ruined, it is certain to request action by the Security Council. The officials were clinging to the little hope that remained, saying two of the five IAEA inspectors currently in Pyongyang will stay behind and monitor the progress in the discharge of fuel rods from North Korea's five-megawatt reactor. These inspectors could restart negotiations with North Korea on halting the unloading process so that the IAEA can select and store the critical rods for future measurement. Measurement is considered a must in determining how much plutonium North Korea has stockpiled. "But it's definitely closer to a failure," said one ministry official on condition of anonymity. "As to whether the remaining inspectors can succeed in negotiations, we can't be sure." North Korea began discharging the 800 bundles of fuel rods, each bundle containing 10 rods, from May 12. according to Blix, Pyongyang has done 50 percent of the unloading and will be able to complete the job within days. Washington, in working-level contacts with Pyongyang over the past few days, has insisted that North Korea at least stop the discharge. This would ensure that there was still a chance of taking the necessary measurements. But North Korea has refused to halt the work, demanding instead that the United States sit down for the next round of high-level negotiations to discuss how measurement can be guaranteed, apparently a tactic to continue using the five- megawatt reactor as a bargaining chip. "North Korea never said it would not allow measurement. But it's becoming obvious that Pyongyang is doing its best to keep its past nuclear activities a secret, away from any analysis or probe," said one analyst at the Foreign Ministry. In truth, full access to the fuel rods and their measurement would disclose the majority of North Korea's nuclear development program, and giving it away would dramatically weaken Pyongyang's nuclear card. Foreign Minister Han had repeated that guaranteeing measurement is "the line" that decides whether diplomatic efforts continue or end. North Korea is close to crossing that line and officials say that by next week, new circumstances may arise that demand a confrontation with Pyongyang.
