FBIS3-11963 "drlat060cc_94001" FBIS-LAT-94-060 Document Type:Daily Report 19 Mar 1994 NAFTA Study: NAFTA Poses Risks to Colombian Exports PA2503184194 Santa Fe de Bogota EL TIEMPO in Spanish 19 Mar 94 p 6A PA2503184194 Santa Fe de Bogota EL TIEMPO Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Text] A Foreign Trade Ministry study indicated that the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) poses a risk to the integration of Colombia with Mexico. The study also indicates that NAFTA, of which Mexico is a part, will cause difficulties for Colombians exports to access the Mexican market because the Mexican doors will swing open for very competitive U.S. products. Should the agreement within the Group of Three (G-3), made up of Colombia, Venezuela, and Mexico, not materialize, the situation will worsen because our country will even lack preferential access to the Mexican market. This is why the study states that "the G-3 will have no value whatsoever unless it is reinforced by the incorporation of Colombia into NAFTA" and by the subsequent establishment of a Latin American economic bloc. The costs of excluding Colombia from NAFTA will be huge, not only because the advantages of having access to one of the world's largest markets would be lost, but because foreign investors would prefer to conduct businesses in Mexico, not in Colombia. According to the study, more than half of the capital flows allocated to Latin American investments in the next few years will go to Mexico because of the preferential access that businessmen and exporters will have to enter the U.S. market. Preliminary estimates indicate that Mexican exports to the United States will increase by an additional 15 percent annually; the Mexican economy will grow by an additional 11 percent; and real salaries will increase by 16 percent. The study also reveals that products of the chemical and publishing industries will be the Colombian products most hurt by Mexican preferences for the United States because of the differing NAFTA and G-3 schedules 3 to lift customs duties. The report indicates that "the message is clear for Colombia if we consider that the NAFTA inclusion conditions are relatively flexible. Second, the integration agreement reached so far must be included within the most ambitious plan, whose ultimate goal is hemispheric integration." Colombia recently asked to join NAFTA. U.S. Trade Representative Mickey Kantor said Colombia will probably be included on the list of countries that want to join NAFTA. The list will be officially submitted to President Bill Clinton on 1 May.
