FBIS3-33608 "drlat038_n_94003" FBIS-LAT-94-038 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Feb 1994 Chile Interior Minister on `Cowardly' Terrorist Attacks PY2402142594 Santiago Radio Cooperativa Network in Spanish 1000 GMT 24 Feb 94 PY2402142594 Santiago Radio Cooperativa Network Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Passages within quotation marks recorded] [Text] Interior Minister Enrique Krauss has referred to the individuals carrying out terrorist actions in the capital as cowards and stupid. The minister said those actions are due to the transfer of terrorist criminals to the so-called new model prison. The minister minimized the importance of the 23 February attacks. Asked if security will be increased at political parties' offices, Enrique Krauss said: "All appropriate measures were in place at the time of the attacks. That is why police were able to act promptly, avoiding possible damage to the premises or victims." But do the latest incidents mean that terrorists are active again? "They have a minimal capacity for action. When they resort to these types of actions, which are small, despicable, and cowardly, as usual, it means they do not have a large capability. It is the typical action of cowards, the kind of persons.... [changes thought] They do not have the capacity; they are not courageous people. This is the typical action of cowards." Regarding the measures to be taken by police, the minister said: "The Carabineros and Investigative Police are investigating. The appropriate preventive measures are in place. I want to call the attention of the country to the fact that we are not facing increasing terrorist activities. We are suffering from the stupid, despicable, cowardly action of small, insignificant groups. We have some concrete leads that we expect will lead to the arrest of those responsible." Krauss said no terrorist group has claimed responsibility for the attacks. There are people in jail because when you act in democracy and according to the law there is a clear awareness on how to face these incidents. Regarding (ODEP), the so-called organization of political prisoners' relatives and friends, Krauss said it was a group dedicated to protecting and promoting terrorism.
