FBIS3-39065 "drweu028_o_94001" FBIS-WEU-94-028 Document Type:Daily Report 10 Feb 1994 CYPRUS UN's Feissel Meets Kliridhis; Talks Agenda Finalized NC1002091094 Nicosia Cyprus Broadcasting Corporation Radio Network in Greek 0800 GMT 10 Feb 94 NC1002091094 Nicosia Cyprus Broadcasting Corporation Radio Network Language: Greek Article Type:BFN [Text] Gustave Feissel, the UN secretary general's alternate special representative in Cyprus, today had a new meeting with President Glavkos Kliridhis within the framework of negotiations to prepare the proximity talks on the confidence-building measures [CBM's]. Entering the Presidential Palace, Feissel said things are proceeding normally, adding that he does not expect any difficulties. The goal of the UN official's meetings is to prepare an agenda and determine the points that each side considers crucial in implementing the CBM's. According to the Cyprus Broadcasting Corporation's [CyBC] information, Kliridhis said the key-points are access to Famagusta's fenced-off area, the safety of the Greek Cypriots who will return to their homes in that area, and the travel documents that Turkish Cypriots will use at Nicosia Airport if and when it reopens. Foreign Minister Alekos Mikhailidhis, government spokesman Ioannis Kasoulidhis, Deputy Minister to the President Pandelis Kouros, and UN political adviser John Paul Kavanagh participated in the meeting. Feissel will have another meeting with Turkish Cypriot leader Rauf Denktas tomorrow. He also met Denktas yesterday. Leaving the Presidential Palace a short time ago, Feissel said the agenda of the proximity talks has been finalized, adding that it contains six topics. The UN envoy said he will inform the UN secretary general that the two sides have agreed on the agenda. He added that the proximity talks will begin on 17 February, as scheduled. Feissel confirmed a CyBC report braodcast yesterday that Joe Clark, the UN secretary general's special representative in Cyprus, will arrive in Cyprus next Tuesday [15 February] and will not be accompanied by UN experts.
