FBIS4-2632 "drchi070_w_94004" FBIS-CHI-94-070 Daily Report 12 Apr 1994 HONG KONG & MACAO Hong Kong Local NPC Delegates Disagree Local NPC Delegates Disagree HK1204060994 Hong Kong HONGKONG STANDARD in English 12 Apr 94 p 3 HK1204060994 Hong Kong HONGKONG STANDARD English BFN [By M.Y. Sung] [Text] Local delegates to China's National People's Congress (NPC) have fallen out over the text of a letter to their chairman Qiao Shi, which requests a detailed explanation of the verdict on jailed Hong Kong journalist Xi Yang. At least one delegate has refused to sign an amended version of the letter, on the grounds that it implied China mishandled the case. Xi, a Chinese national resident in Hong Kong, was arrested in Beijing late last year on charges of espionage and stealing state secrets. His trial was conducted in secret earlier this year, and the verdict and 12-year sentence were announced last week. A special meeting of local NPC delegates was held last Friday to discuss the severity of Xi's case. But at least one of the delegates who attended the meeting, surveyor Kan Fook-yee, refused to sign an amended version of the letter, saying the initial draft had taken a "more neutral" stance on Xi's case. The letter, drafted by Cheng Yiu-tong, Ng Hong-man and Peter Wong, was circulated among other local delegates. It had asked the NPC Standing Committee to demand that the Beijing Municipal People's Intermediate Court reveal the full text of the verdict against Xi. It also urged that the hearing of Xi's appeal against his sentence be conducted in full accordance with Chinese law. Mr Kan said the amended version, after other delegates had added their opinions, insinuated that China had mishandled Xi's case. He said he would not sign a letter which took a specific stance on the case, before the Chinese government was given an opportunity to provide a full explanation. Mr Kan argued it was not proper to question the fairness of the Chinese judiciary without being fully aware of the circumstances of Xi's case. Another delegate and lawyer, Dorothy Liu, said she had noticed differences between the two versions. But she did not think the amended version contained any improper suggestions. Miss Liu had already signed the amended letter which was expected to reach the NPC chairman later this week.
