FBIS4-8605 "dreeu073_i_94013" FBIS-EEU-94-073 Daily Report 15 Apr 1994 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA NATO `Intimidation' of Serbs at Tuzla NATO `Intimidation' of Serbs at Tuzla LD1404230894 Belgrade TANJUG in English 2236 GMT 14 Apr 1994 LD1404230894 Belgrade TANJUG English BFN ["Pool" item] [Text] Rome, April 14 (TANJUG)--NATO sources in Italy said that NATO planes buzzed the Moslem-held town of Tuzla in northeastern Bosnia for three hours on Thursday to deter Bosnian Serbs from attacking U.N. troops on the ground. A NATO spokesman said the U.N. troops in Tuzla were directly threatened by Serb forces which repeatedly shelled the airport and the town itself. Tuzla is held by the Moslems. The Serb troops are deployed around the town. Pairs of U.S. A-10 planes from NATO's base in Aviano, British Harriers from the Arc Royal air carrier and Jaguars from the Gioia Del Cole base, and Dutch F-16s from Villafranca were engaged in the "intimidation" action. Bosnian Serb leader Radovan Karadzic said on Thursday that NATO transporter planes had been shipping war materiel to Tuzla for days although the local airport had not been officially reopened. The airport can only be used for humanitarian flights, Karadzic was categorical. He also said two transporters that were about to land at Tuzla on Thursday decided otherwise after the Serb side warned them not to land. "I think this is better than to down them." The Bosnian Serb command on Monday accused NATO of transferring parts of it rapid deployment force to Tuzla. Fred Eckhard, spokesman for the U.N. secretary-general, told TANJUG on Tuesday he knew nothing about that but did not rule out the possibility that troops and equipment for securing the airport might have been airborne to Tuzla. "We have warned them that the airport will be reopened only on the basis of an agreement between us and Russian President Boris Yeltsin, peace envoy Vitaliy Churkin and Foreign Minister Andrey Kozyrev," said Karadzic. Bosnian Serbs opposed the reopening of Tuzla airport fearing it might be used for shipping arms to the Moslems, and insisted that Bosnian Serb and Russian U.N. monitors be deployed at the facility to inspect its operation.
