FBIS4-1256 "drafr080_d_94004" FBIS-AFR-94-080 Daily Report 25 Apr 1994 SOUTHERN AFRICA Angola Further on Situation in Huila, Cuito Further on Situation in Huila, Cuito MB2504210594 Luanda TPA Television Network in Portuguese 1930 GMT 25 Apr 94 MB2504210594 Luanda TPA Television Network Portuguese BFN [Excerpts] The National Union for the Total Independence of Angola [UNITA] wants to capture the capital of Huila Province's Jamba Mineira District. Jonas Savimbi's men are applying pressure on the area and have already carried out a number of attacks, which have all met with a prompt response from the government forces. Over the last few days, UNITA moved and deployed three battalions over a radius of 15 km north and east of Jamba Mineira District. (?The next) will be UNITA's fourth attack on the area this month and its aim is to occupy it. The UNITA forces were repelled in the first three clashes, leaving 38 soldiers killed on the ground, along with the equipment they were carrying. On 14 April one UNITA battalion attacked Jamba Commune in Lubango District, but Savimbi's men met with stiff resistance and were put to flight. They left 17 soldiers killed on the ground and our forces also took three prisoners. [passage omitted] The precarious calm that has prevailed over Cuito was broken yet again yesterday. Jonas Savimbi's men and their weapons made it clear that the city and its residents could once again experience the horrors of war at any time. Yesterday morning the UNITA [word indistinct] troops attacked government positions in the northern part of Cuito. The 10-minute attack occurred at about 0700 and resulted in the death of one child. Sources in the Angolan Armed Forces Operational Command have disclosed that the UNITA forces are continuing to carry out provocative operations to try and find a pretext that would allow them to fulfill their plans to attack Cuito. That source added that, as part of their provocative ploys, on 23 April they fired a shell at the government position in the north of Cuito.
