FBIS4-55225 "dreeu092_h_94002" FBIS-EEU-94-092 Daily Report 11 May 1994 HUNGARY Smallholders Leader on Cooperation With MDF Smallholders Leader on Cooperation With MDF AU1105182194 Budapest NEPSZAVA in Hungarian 11 May 94 p 3 AU1105182194 Budapest NEPSZAVA Hungarian BFN [Interview with Jozsef Torgyan, chairman of the Independent Smallholders Party, by Ildiko Horvath: "Will You Extend Your Hand to the Hungarian Democratic Forum?"] [Text] The Hungarian Democratic Forum [MDF] wants to step to the front of a national cooperation that is rather necessary now to change somewhat the situation that emerged after the elections, MDF spokesman Karoly Herenyi declared recently. He thinks it is possible that the MDF will get in contact with the Christian Democratic People's Party [KDNP] and the Independent Smallholders Party [FKGP] in places where candidates of these parties are still running. We asked FKGP Chairman Jozsef Torgyan, whose party is also interested in driving back the left, whether they are ready to help out the MDF. [Torgyan] The FKGP thinks that the MDF is definitely responsible for the current situation. We must start from this premise in developing our strategy. Our party continues to preserve its firm principles which it also preserved in the past years, and this is the condition for any cooperation. Therefore, we see primarily contacts with the KDNP as realistic. Besides, before the second round of elections, we do not have any points of confrontation that cannot be bridged. Certain concrete agreements in some given areas on supporting candidates are naturally not excluded. However, we will not renounce the possibilities of any of our candidates. [Horvath] The MDF also hopes for such support. [Torgyan] The policy of the MDF contributed to the tragedy of the national wing. They wanted to destroy the FKGP. By this, they revived the Communists. For any cooperation with the MDF, we need top-level principled coordination regarding the future policy of the two parties. Time will tell whether any cooperation can emerge regarding individual places.
