FBIS4-1816 "drchi064_u_94005" FBIS-CHI-94-064 Daily Report 22 Mar 1994 PRC MEDIA ON TAIWAN AFFAIRS Enterprise Management Symposium Held in Beijing Enterprise Management Symposium Held in Beijing OW2203085894 Beijing XINHUA in English 0803 GMT 22 Mar 94 OW2203085894 Beijing XINHUA English BFN [Text] Beijing, March 22 (XINHUA) -- A symposium on enterprise management on both sides of the Taiwan Straits opened here this morning. About 60 senior management personnel from enterprises across the Taiwan Straits and Overseas Chinese enterprises attended the opening session of the five-day symposium. During the meeting, the participants are to discuss the current economic situation on the mainland and in Taiwan, the development features of various industries, the set-up of modern enterprise system and cooperation between enterprises on both sides of the straits. Wu Jie, president of the Chinese Institute of Reforms, wished the meeting success. Professor Ma Junru, chairman of the Association for Personnel Exchanges Across the Taiwan Straits, expressed the hope to the gathering that senior management personnel would compare notes on the set-up and management of modern enterprises. Mutual understanding and contacts between the participants would help to forge cooperative ties in various forms and provide a good infrastructure for closer cooperation between the participants in the days to come, Ma said. David Chen, chairman of the Chinese Quality Assurance Association (U.S.A.), noted that in the past few years, the economies on both sides of the Taiwan Straits have logged rapid growth and that the Chinese enterprises in Southeast Asia and the United States also have recorded remarkable development. The exchanges of enterprise management expertise would help to promote the development of these enterprises, he said. In the morning session today, Wu Yufeng, deputy director of the Economic System and Management Research Institute under the State Commission for Economic Restructuring, made a speech on the current economic status of the mainland. Wen-Ching Cheng, counsellor of the Chinese Quality Assurance Association, briefed the participants on the development of public- run enterprises in Taiwan. The symposium is jointly sponsored by the Association for Personnel Exchanges Across the Taiwan Straits and the Economic System and Management Research Institute of the State Commission for Economic Restructuring.
