FBIS3-50493 "drlat001_j_94001" FBIS-LAT-94-001 Document Type:Daily Report 3 Jan 1994 Panama President Welcomes Constitutional Article on Canal PA3112000693 Panama City LA PRENSA in Spanish 30 Dec 93 p 5 PA3112000693 Panama City LA PRENSA Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Article by Ibeth Vega G.] [Text] With the approval of a new constitutional article governing the administration of the Panama Canal after the year 2000 and the creation of ARI [Interoceanic Region Authority], Panama now has the two tools necessary to meet the enormous responsibility of administering the waterway -- once it is in Panamanian hands -- President Guillermo Endara told LA PRENSA. Endara's statement came after the article was approved in the Legislative Assembly's third and final debate on the constitutional article that calls for the creation of the Panama Canal Authority, which will administer the waterway at the end of the century. Endara said: "I am very proud of the Panamanian Government -- I regard the legislative branch as part of the government -- for approving the new constitutional article. One of the most important missions of this transition government was to prepare Panama for noon, 30 December 1999, when the United States will turn over the canal." Endara pointed out that since 1977, the dictatorship governments never made any serious effort to prepare Panamanians for the serious responsibility of administering the canal. He added, "All they did was give speeches and disseminate self-serving propaganda, but there was nothing concrete." To become part of the Constitution, the new constitutional article has to be ratified by the next Legislative Assembly that will be created in the 8 May elections. Endara said: "I believe Panama has two basic tools for the immense responsibility it faces. Of course, now the work has to be done, and, therefore, these two institutions' efforts in the future will have to be intense, dedicated, and very patriotic." The president said he felt satisfied and pleased that these two "tools" had been created during his administration.
