FBIS3-39213 "drweu031aa_94003" FBIS-WEU-94-031 Document Type:Daily Report 15 February 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Views PFP Document, Bosnian War AU1402182294 Sofia Khorizont Radio Network in Bulgarian 1700 GMT 14 Feb 94 AU1402182294 Sofia Khorizont Radio Network Language: Bulgarian Article Type:BFN [Report by correspondent Aleksandur Vladkov in Brussels on Zhelev's news conference before his departure for Sofia -- live or recorded] [Text] [Announcer] President Zhelev signed a framework agreement on cooperation with NATO in Brussels today. Before departing for Bulgaria, he gave a news conference for Bulgarian and foreign journalists. Let us hear the following report by our West Europe correspondent Aleksandur Vladkov. [Vladkov] The Bulgarian president described the signing of the Partnership for Peace [PFP] agreement as an essential element in a very important process. He described the agreement as an introductory stage to the future integration of Bulgaria and the other East European countries as full members, on the one hand, and as the beginning of NATO's transformation into a collective, continental security structure, on the other hand. The agreement is a challenge for speeding up the reforms in our country under a military-political aspect and under purely economic and social aspects. However, it is also a challenge for NATO in connection with the adjustment of the organization to the new realities in Europe and the world in the direction of a universal collective security structure, rather than in the direction of isolated military-political blocs. Dwelling on the crisis in Yugoslavia and on the war in Bosnia, President Zhelev pointed out as follows: The conflicts in the immediate vicinity of our border are directly challenging our national security and are causing immeasurable difficulties for our economic reform, because of the international sanctions. Nevertheless, Bulgaria's policy remains well-intentioned, peace-loving, and based on moral principles. I am sure that all civilized, democratic countries will duly appreciate it.
