FBIS4-46927 "jpusr062___94038" FBIS-USR-94-062 JPRS FBIS Report: Central Eurasia 3 June 1994 RUSSIA REGIONAL AFFAIRS News From St Petersburg News From St Petersburg Scholars Meet, Discuss Support for Science 944E0896C St. Petersburg SMENA in Russian 3 Jun 94 p 1 944E0896C St. Petersburg SMENA Russian CSO [Article by Svetlana Gavrilina: "Will the Duma Help Russian Science?"] [Text] The St. Petersburg Union of Scientists, jointly with the RAN [Russian Academy of Sciences] St. Petersburg Scientific Center, invited Oksana Dmitriyeva, a deputy of the State Duma and chairman of the budget subcommittee, to a regular seminar from the cycle "Science and Power." The topic of the discussion was phrased as follows: "The Budget and Tax Policy With Regard to Science as a Result of Activities of Certain Influence Groups Within the Authorities." The leader of the seminar, Sergey Kozyrev, vice president of the St. Petersburg Union of Scientists, said that the desire to learn "from the horse's mouth" what the authorities really intend to undertake in order that the situation of science, especially basic research, no longer be catastrophic was the objective of the meeting. The budget that was approved in the first reading calls for allocating 3.5 trillion rubles [R] for science. This number with many zeros is much smaller than the amount designated for agrarians. What is to be done when funds are appropriated for basic research that are only twice as large as those for repairing the White House? They asked Oksana Dmitriyeva this question: Does the Duma understand that the irreversible decay of science in our country is possible? The intellectual elite is migrating abroad, young scientists are changing professions.... Dmitriyeva gave hope to the participants in the seminar by stating that the situation whereby the Ministry of Finance delayed the payment of money to scientific institutions would be rectified. She mentioned the development of policy proposals in this area jointly with the scholarly community as a direction for the operation of her subcommittee. Oksana Dmitriyeva said that it is necessary to seek a "transparent" budget for science, and the Duma can resolve this issue.
