FBIS4-9901 "drlat065_h_94001" FBIS-LAT-94-065 Daily Report 4 Apr 1994 Honduras Reina Prepares To Announce Economic Measures Reina Prepares To Announce Economic Measures PA0404221794 Tegucigalpa LA TRIBUNA in Spanish 4 April 94 p 2 PA0404221794 Tegucigalpa LA TRIBUNA Spanish BFN [Excerpt] Over the 1 April weekend, President Carlos Roberto Reina announced that the economic cabinet will announce this week the nine measures to be implemented by the current administration. Although he did not specify what type of measures his economic cabinet will announce, Reina reiterated that the measures are necessary "and will be disclosed this week." Regarding the last increase in fuel prices, Reina said: "We are doing the best we can within our means. We cannot avoid certain adverse situations, but everything will be done to increase social spending." He added, "The people have given me their trust, and I ask them to continue to do so." Meanwhile, Reina recalled that the increases are not the only measures that require unselfishness. He stressed, "unselfishness is also fighting corruption of all types, and this is what we are doing; unselfishness is telling the people the truth and meeting all challenges courageously." Regarding the substantial increase in the price of kerosene for home use, Reina noted that the product had been subsidized, "and if you want the real price, you will see it is still higher than the fixed price." He argued, "I have tried to prevent this as much as I could. Nevertheless, the government must continue with its plan; otherwise, we will return to the high levels of corruption that prevailed in this country in the past." Huge Debt of the Wealthy Referring to the economic crisis the country is facing, Reina pointed out that the government's plan is to increase social spending to ease the population's hardships. He said, "Our goal is to increase social spending to as much as 35 percent of the national budget." Nevertheless, he said it is first necessary to correct situations like the one detected in the National Enterprise for Electric Power, where the government discovered that "wealthy people" owe some 190 million lempiras. Reina went on to explain: "It is wealthy people, not poor people. How can we allow this to continue? There are situations the government will explain.... These are extremely dramatic aspects of recent circumstances." Asked if he was bowing to pressure from international financial institutions [IFI's], he answered, "I will never bow to the dictates of the IFI's." He argued, "I have the highest opinion of the mandate, but we have inherited a very difficult situation that must be faced with honesty." Tragedy in Mexico Regarding the assassination of Luis Donaldo Colosio, presidential candidate of the Mexican Institutional Revolutionary Party, Reina said it would be a tragedy to return to a time of assassinations and security threats to political figures. He said he hopes the Mexican people will recover from the shock of the incident, "and that this barbaric conduct will never again be emulated in Honduras." Reina believes this tragic incident in Mexico will not have repercussions in the Central American countries. [passage omitted]
