FBIS4-59593 "drnes094_o_94006" FBIS-NES-94-094 Daily Report 13 May 1994 SYRIA Southern Yemeni Official Gives Statement on Crisis Southern Yemeni Official Gives Statement on Crisis JN1305130094 Damascus Syrian Arab Republic Radio Network in Arabic 1200 GMT 13 May 94 JN1305130094 Damascus Syrian Arab Republic Radio Network Arabic BFN [Statement by Salih Abu-Bakr Bin-Husaynun, Yemeni oil minister and envoy of Yemeni Vice President 'Ali Salim al-Bid, to President al-Asad; date not given; from "Weekly File" program -- recorded] [Text] We as Yemenis, as well as the brother Syrians and all Arabs, regret this event and these problems. The crisis continued for more than nine months and it was possible to solve it politically within the framework of the Political Forces Dialogue Committee, especially after this committee succeeded in drafting the pledge and accord document, which was considered the document of national consensus. It was possible to begin implementing this document and consequently resolve the crisis and reactivate the work of various bodies. However, regrettably, what happened was the opposite of what we expected. At a time when the various Yemeni groups were signing the agreement, the al-'Amaliqah forces began the battle against the Abyan and Aden Governorates. Consequently, it was clear to us that there were those who did not wish to implement the agreement, particularly the military forces in northern Yemen. The next step was the liquidation of units that moved from the south to the north, beginning with the 5th Brigade of the Sufyan Guards and then the 3d Armored Brigade in 'Imran. The battle then spread on a large scale to Dhamar and raged on five axes in the direction of Aden. The war was imposed on the Socialist Party and, regrettably, the nationalist Yemeni forces. However, the political leadership in the Socialist Party, in coordination with the Political Forces Dialogue Committee, continues to announce to all Yemeni, Arab, and international public the need to stop the war before anything else and return to dialogue. The language of (?force) at the present international circumstances cannot solve any problem; dialogue is the right way to solve political problems. The battle is now taking place on five axes. Yesterday, a new axis was opened at Bab el Mandeb. This is detrimental both to Yemen and to international navigation. I heard from news agencies that the People's Congress has forces about 3 km from Aden. This is untrue and the northern and southern forces are engaged in battles 100 km from Aden.
