FBIS3-28979 "dreas030_m_94008" FBIS-EAS-94-030 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Feb 1994 Thailand Taiwan Leader on `Vacation;' Impact of Visit Chinese Envoy Meets NSC Chief BK1202090094 Bangkok BANGKOK POST in English 12 Feb 94 p 2 BK1202090094 Bangkok BANGKOK POST Language: English Article Type:BFN [Excerpts] The Chinese Embassy in Bangkok yesterday continued to show Peking's "concern" about the private visit to Thailand of Taiwanese President Li Teng-hui next week. National Security Council [NSC] Secretary General Charan Kunlawanit said the Chinese Embassy counsellor called on him at Government House yesterday to express his government's "concern" about Mr. Li's visit which will begin on Monday. He said he told the Chinese envoy that the visit was private and had nothing to do with any state agencies, including the NSC. The invitation was extended to the Taiwanese president by the Thai private sector, and the visit was, therefore, not recognized by the government. Gen. Charan said the Chinese envoy was concerned that the visit, although private, might affect good relations between Thailand and China. He said he assured the envoy of Thailand's strict adherence to the one-China policy and asked him not to worry too much. He said he was not aware of the full details of Mr. Li's itinerary except for a vacation in Phuket. [passage omitted] Gen. Charan said he exchanged views with the embassy counsellor about regional cooperation on narcotics suppression. Foreign Minister Squadron Leader Prasong Sunsiri said that no Thai cabinet ministers would meet the Taiwanese president either in their official or private capacities. He said he had no plan to meet Mr. Li, and would turn down such a request if one was put to him. [passage omitted] Asked if there was any possibility of the Taiwanese president discussing economic issues with economic ministers, Sqn. Ldr. Prasong said "no." The minister said he did not pay attention to details of the visit when asked if he knew how many days Mr. Li would stay in Thailand. Government Spokesman Aphisit Wetchachiwa stressed the private nature of President Li's trip, and said Thailand was a free country open to visitors. The spokesman said there was substantial business activity between Thais and Taiwanese, and that a large number of Thais were working in Taiwan.
