FBIS3-32907 "drlat032_a_94006" FBIS-LAT-94-032 Document Type:Daily Report 16 Feb 1994 CARIBBEAN Cuba Workers Engage in Discussion of Economic Issues PA1502221494 Havana Radio Havana Cuba in Spanish 0000 GMT 12 Feb 94 PA1502221494 Havana Radio Havana Cuba Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN ["Report" by Roberto Morejon; from the "Evening Information Review" newscast] [Text] Given a situation where shortages are widespread and increasing the level of efficiency in all economic sectors is urgent, Cubans support the immediate implementation of measures agreed upon in each workplace in order to reduce costs, be more cost-efficient, and better manage resources to increase production. Over 3 million Cubans are currently participating in discussions promoted by the unions in an attempt to find solutions to various problems that hinder the efficiency of each workplace and affect the country's financial reorganization. According to the Center for Social-Political Studies and Research [Centro de Estudios Socio-Politicos y de Opinion], which conducted a poll among 1,300 workers, the leading topic discussed in the meetings held thus far is labor efficiency. In response to a call by the union leadership, the main concern of Cuban workers has been to find a formula to produce more efficiently given the availability of enough raw materials, fuels, and production equipment. During the meetings on economic issues called by the unions, the participants have contributed many ideas, recommendations, and useful reflections on how to face the management problem. According to official figures, only 31 percent of Cuban enterprises are profitable due to primarily external factors linked to the loss of Cuba's traditional partners in the vanished socialist sphere and the intensification of the U.S. blockade. However, other factors are involved in this situation, namely an inefficiency accumulated over many years, a lack of concern regarding costs, expenditures, and the balance between earnings and expenditures as well as a poor resource-management. The Cuban economy needs to place greater emphasis on all these aspects and to that effect, the current meetings come in very handy. In these meetings, both workers and administrative leaders examine thoroughly the best ways to eradicate inefficiency. What constitutes one of the most pressing tasks is to implement the agreements fully in order to eradicate inefficiency, without waiting for the measures that will soon be approved by the Cuban Parliament to reorganize the country's finances.
