FBIS3-27587 "drchi038_n_94008" FBIS-CHI-94-038 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Feb 1994 Economic & Agricultural Former Official Comments on Value-Added Land Tax HK2502111794 Beijing ZHONGGUO XINWEN SHE in English 1450 GMT 24 Feb 94 HK2502111794 Beijing ZHONGGUO XINWEN SHE Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Beijing, February 24 (CNS)--The levying of value-added tax on land is not something new in China as there have been precedents at home and even in Hong Kong, Taiwan and foreign countries, the former director of the State Land Administration Mr. Wang Xianjin said today. He noted that such tax was regarded as a necessity in the regulation of the real estate market because it could effectively curb land speculation and unreasonable profits, a move playing a guiding role in the placing of investment. Promulgation of the provisional ordinance on value-added tax on land, according to Mr. Wang, received a strong reaction from the real estate sectors at home and in Hong Kong and Taiwan as well as overseas with many saying that the taxation rate was too high. Mr. Wang said that some of the opinions expressed were worth taking notice of by the authorities when working out details on the value-added tax on land. Mr. Wang said he believed that a price rise and investment risk should be taken into account when calculating the added value, a common practice employed in Hong Kong, Taiwan and overseas. It is, however, yet to be decided what weight the risk factor should be given. Preferential treatment should be given to some transactions involving the transfer of real estate, especially housing units approved by the government for their construction and sold at a price set by the government. Such housing should be exempted from the value-added tax. The tax should be cut by the half for sales of real estate resulting from planning by the government while sales of residential units should be subject to the value-added tax on land. Tax refunds are, however, possible for sellers of housing who buy another flat for their own use within a specific time. Real estate donated to the government or to charitable groups should be exempted from the value-added tax. Donated real estate should be turned over to the government in cases of disbandment of a particular charitable group which had received the donation. Transfer of land without any development following its sale should be subject to the value-added tax and such cases should also be dealt with in accordance with law. Mr. Wang said that the regulation set earlier on real estate developers that they must undertake construction of welfare housing which must make up 20 percent of their total volume of their real estate development should be rescinded because such practice was not in line with the market mechanism.
