FBIS4-42624 "drweu109_h_94003" FBIS-WEU-94-109 Daily Report 7 Jun 1994 GERMANY Kohl, Gonzalez Hold News Conference Kohl, Gonzalez Hold News Conference LD0706113994 Berlin N-TV in German 1000 GMT 7 Jun 94 LD0706113994 Berlin N-TV German BFN [Text] The German-Spanish summit ends today with a private visit by Spanish Prime Minister Felipe Gonzalez to the island of Ruegen. Before that, at a news conference, Chancellor Kohl and his Spanish counterpart summarized the results of the 11th round of government talks in Schwerin. The Spanish head of government flies home this afternoon. [Correspondent J. Schlaewe] The first German-Spanish summit in one of the eastern German states was evidently blessed with very good fortune. Helmut Kohl and Felipe Gonzalez certainly noted complete agreement on virtually all European issues following their talks in Schwerin. This is particularly notable because Germany's [EU] presidency will be followed by the French and then the Spanish presidency. This provides new opportunities for shaping European policy. [Video cuts show Kohl addressing news conference with Gonzalez] [Kohl] These are important goals. I need only mention improving Europe's position as an investment location. Many proposals from the white paper can be cited here: work on a joint foreign and security policy to preserve stability and peace. Another important issue here is relations with the states undergoing reform in Central, East, and southeastern Europe. [Schlaewe] However, the accession of the countries undergoing reform is not on the agenda either tomorrow or in the immediate future. According to Felipe Gonzalez, another important topic of discussion was bilateral relations. Spain wants, among other things, to take part in the Eurocorps, which so far has been reserved for Germany and France. Both heads of government hold the same view about the automobile industry's problem child, Seat, VW's subsidiary in Spain. This cooperation could be supported but it is ultimately up to the company to resolve the crisis.
