FBIS3-38195 "drweu020aa_94010" FBIS-WEU-94-020 Document Type:Daily Report 31 January 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Pakistan's Bhutto Meets Swedish, Mexican Leaders BK2901150394 Islamabad PTV Television Network in English 1400 GMT 29 Jan 94 BK2901150394 Islamabad PTV Television Network Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] In Davos today, the prime minister, Ms. Benazir Bhutto, had meetings with the Swedish prime minister and the Mexican president. In her meeting with the Swedish prime minister, Mr. Carl Bildt, Ms. Benazir Bhutto greatly lauded the leading role played by Sweden in safeguarding human rights. PTV representative Jaafar Bilgrami reports that Ms. Benazir Bhutto briefed her Swedish counterpart about the prevailing situation in Kashmir and particularly mentioned the violation of human rights in the valley. She also discussed the situation in Afghanistan and Central Asia and reiterated that Pakistan would continue to work for bringing about peace. She also discussed the situation in Bosnia-Herzegovina and informed the Swedish prime minister about her forthcoming visit to Sarajevo, which she described as a symbol of solidarity with the people of Bosnia. She said Pakistan supports the UN efforts to send troops to Bosnia to have a peaceful settlement. Discussing the bilateral cooperation, Ms. Benazir Bhutto expressed the hope that Sweden will assist Pakistan in (Bhimari) Tunnel project which may open new vistas of closer cooperation with Central Asian republics. The Swedish prime minister, Carl Bildt, greatly appreciated her participation in Davos conference and welcomed the socioeconomic program of her government for development and progress. Pakistan's prime minister also held a meeting with the president of Mexico, Mr. Carlos Salinas. She briefed the Mexican president about the Kashmir issue, the Pakistan-U.S. relations, and internal and external policies of Pakistan. She congratulated the Mexican president on NAFTA agreement and asked him not to discriminate [against] the Third World countries. The Mexican president assured the prime minister that special care will be taken for comprehensive GATT regulations and also to safeguard the economic and trade interests of the developing countries. Later, talking to PTV representative, the Mexican president said: [Begin Salinas recording] It was a very positive meeting because we were able to discuss the bilateral relationship and also issues of interest for the prime minister, issues relating to Pakistan and also the perspective of our stronger trade relations; and I told her that NAFTA, the North American Free Trade Agreement, does not create a fortress-like trading area, but is open to the participation of other countries as trading partners or even as members. [end recording]
