FBIS4-61074 "drsov085_v_94008" FBIS-SOV-94-085 Daily Report 19 Apr 1994 Lithuania Preparations for Stage 2 of Privatization Reported Preparations for Stage 2 of Privatization Reported WS0205143994 Vilnius TIESA in Lithuanian 19 Apr 94 No. 75 p 1 WS0205143994 Vilnius TIESA Lithuanian BFN [Report by GK: "Privatization: Looking Forward to the Second Stage"] [Text] While the first stage in privatization -- when state property was distributed to citizens for investment coupons -- is drawing to a close, the government has drafted two new laws on privatization. These laws project the establishment of two new institutions -- the Privatization Agency that would handle the privatization of remaining state assets, and the State Property Fund that would manage the remaining state assets or their part in private enterprises. These two institutions must be separated because the office that manages state property will, certainly, not be interested in speeding up privatization and bringing nearer its own natural breakup. At a press conference yesterday, Andrew L. Baldwin and Robert Stone, leaders of the European Union program for assisting privatization in the Baltic states, assessed the process of privatization in our country and one-year results of the PHARE [Poland and Hungary Action for Restructuring the Economy]. In their opinion, privatization in Lithuania is successful in comparison with other Baltic and East European countries. Privatization for hard currency alone could be more effective. They implied that the government had made a mistake by refusing to sell the "Lietuva" hotel for $10 million. The government pledges to extend privatization for investment coupons which has not been completed. In reply to a question from TIESA as to whether the law on primary privatization was worth changing, R. Stone reminded everyone that 187 amendments have already been made to this law. In his opinion, however, the law must be made more rational, primarily by reducing privileges to workers at enterprises.
