FBIS3-29485 "dreas034_m_94009" FBIS-EAS-94-034 Document Type:Daily Report 18 Feb 1994 Thailand Arms Trade Shows Government-Military Tension BK1802061994 Bangkok THE NATION in English 18 Feb 94 p A 3 BK1802061994 Bangkok THE NATION Language: English Article Type:BFN [Report by Wassana Nanuam] [Excerpts] The Cabinet insistence on Tuesday that the Air Force must purchase transportation planes only through the barter trade system is the first clear sign that cracks are beginning to appear in the relationship between the government and the military. [passage omitted] Observers said the Cabinet move was seen as an attempt to prevent top brass, who traditionally ink the deals, from receiving kickbacks worth millions of baht or much more. Chuan was less than totally clear about what he had in mind. But apparently aware of dissatisfaction among the top brass, he said the barter system would be employed on a case-by-case basis. "It is not mandatory," the prime minister insisted. But Chuan has seemed to be trying to distance himself from his vague "case-by-case" purchase policy. The issue became more ambiguous when he said the food-for-arms plan was not his own idea but that of former Navy Chief Adm Wichet Karunyawanit. [passage omitted] Tension escalated after the Cabinet insisted that the Air Force's plan to buy six G222 transport planes from Italy, a Bt3.42 billion purchase, would not fall in the "not mandatory" category as defined by Chuan. "The Defence Ministry must cooperate with the agriculture, the foreign and the commerce ministries to persuade Italy to buy Thai goods in return," stated a Cabinet resolution. The Air Force is determined to get the new aircraft, saying its present fleet of C123 transporters has been in commission for more than 30 years. "They (old model planes) should be decommissioned," an Air Force official, who asked not to be identified, said. He said an Italian firm has already agreed to waive about Bt41 million in training fees in order to help Thailand close the deal. "I really don't see a way-out at the moment. I can't see how Italy could possibly agree with our proposal in its present form. I mean, what kind of agricultural produce do the Italians need from Thailand," the source said. He said he did not understand why the government had made the decision despite observations from officers that it would be difficult to negotiate a deal. "How can we, the military, negotiate the deal? It's impossible. We can't do it. Our only hope resides with the Commerce Ministry. But I really don't see the Italians giving it the nod," he commented. He also questioned the motives behind the resolution. Commander of the Air Force Siriphong Thongyai reacted calmly towards the decision by saying "it is natural if there are other conditions to think about it (before buying the planes)."
