FBIS4-27668 "dreas107_d_94006" FBIS-EAS-94-107 Daily Report 3 Jun 1994 South Korea Security Meeting Studies Sanctions Issue Security Meeting Studies Sanctions Issue SK0306084094 Seoul YONHAP in English 0631 GMT 3 Jun 94 SK0306084094 Seoul YONHAP English BFN [Text] Seoul, June 3 (YONHAP) -- The South Korean Government is preparing for the imposition of sanctions on Pyongyang, judging that punishment of North Korea has become inevitable since the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) officially announced that later measurement of discharged fuel rods at a disputed reactor in North Korea has become impossible. The government, in particular, is seriously considering gradual suspension of inter-Korean trade, amounting to 180 million U.S. dollars per year. The issue was discussed at a policy coordination meeting on national unification and security chaired by Deputy Prime Minister Yi Hong-ku Friday [3 June] morning at the South-North dialogue secretariat in Samchong-tong, Seoul. Yi, who is concurrently minister of the National Unification Board, said through board spokesman Kim Hyong-ki that "the international community is already taking the course of imposing sanctions against North Korea," adding that the government is studying various sanctions against Pyongyang. Yi is the first high-ranking government official to comment officially that sanctions are being studied against North Korea. "The participants in the meeting shared the recognition that the North Korean nuclear issue has turned into a more serious situation," he said. "We are facing a grave challenge in our efforts to find a peaceful solution to the nuclear problem." In a related development, the government will hold a meeting soon with the United States and Japan to discuss sanctions against the North. The meeting will be attended by Korean Nuclear Affairs Ambassador Kim Sam-hun, U.S. Assistant Secretary of State Robert Gallucci and Deputy Director-General Yukio Takeuchi of the Japanese Foreign Ministry's Asian Affairs Bureau. The tripartite meeting is expected to touch on the Japanese Government's prohibition of remittances to North Korea by pro-Pyongyang Koreans in Japan who belong to a group called Chochongnyon [General Association of Korean Residents in Japan], which sends North Korea 60 billion-80 billion yen per year. In addition, the meeting is likely to discuss military build-up programs in preparation for any emergency on the Korean peninsula. Other government officials here said that "the time to discuss whether or not to impose sanctions has already passed," emphasizing the inevitability of sanctions. "We will, however, have close consultations with our allies on detailed procedures and timing," they added.
