FBIS4-17424 "drsov079_t_94003" FBIS-SOV-94-079 Daily Report 22 Apr 1994 BALTIC STATES Estonia Prime Minister Confers With UN Secretary General Prime Minister Confers With UN Secretary General WS2204163394 Tallinn BNS in English 1005 GMT 22 Apr 94 WS2204163394 Tallinn BNS English BFN [Text] Tallinn, Apr 22, BNS -- Estonian Prime Minister Mart Laar, who is on an official visit to the United States, met yesterday with the U.N. Secretary General Butros Butros-Ghali. Butros-Ghali was pleased with Estonia's participation in the formation of the Baltic peacekeeping battalion. He promised his assistance to Estonia, if needed, in issues related to the withdrawal of Russian troops from the country. Butros-Ghali said the United Nations attaches great importance to forging ties with new member states. Laar informed the U.N. secretary general about the recent International Labor Organization anniversary conference in Tallinn and Estonians' participation in peacekeeping missions in the Nordic countries' peacekeeping units. The Estonian premier also gave a survey of Estonia's recent history, the reforms in society and the problems related to the continued presence of Russian troops in the country, such as increase in troop-related crime, enormous damage to the environment, and the danger posed by the Paldiski nuclear reactors. Laar touched briefly on the general need to take into account and protect the interests of small countries, especially with a view to their security. The U.N. secretary general affirmed that the organization represents the interests of all its member states. He underscored the importance of the participation of an Estonian delegation in the upcoming U.N. conferences and summit meetings. Laar continued his visit to the United States in Boston. He talked at Harvard University about Estonian economy. The Estonian premier is accompanied by Foreign Ministry Chancellor Indrek Tarand, his private secretary Toomas Kiho and adviser to the government Ardo Hansson. Laar returns to Estonia on April 25.
