FBIS3-51850 "drlat017_i_94008" FBIS-LAT-94-017 Document Type:Daily Report 26 Jan 1994 Nicaragua 3-80 Northern Front Agrees To Resume Talks With Government PA2501215394 Managua Radio Corporacion in Spanish 1230 GMT 24 Jan 94 PA2501215394 Managua Radio Corporacion Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [From the "Trench" newscast] [Text] Matagalpa -- Salvador Talavera Alaniz, a.k.a. Commander Esteban, and Commander Franklin [Israel Galeano Cornejo] met with Monsignor Juan Abelardo Mata Guevara, the bishop of Esteli, on 20 January in Los Arados community, El Jicaro jurisdiction, Nueva Segovia. The commanders told the monsignor that changes in government policies and in the National Assembly and the more subdued tone and policies of General Humberto Ortega have motivated the 3-80 Northern Front [FN 3-80] to change its strategy and renew its dialogue with the government. Msgr. Juan Abelardo Mata and a number of priests from Esteli Diocese, members of Cardinal Miguel Obando y Bravo's Verification Committee, members of the Pro-Human Rights Association, El Jicaro Deputy Mayor Alba Iris Rivera Rivera, and Commanders Esteban and Franklin analyzed the sociopolitical situation and the changes in government policies. They decided to continue talks with the government and proposed new discussion points, among them a cease-fire and relocation of members of the Sandinist People's Army [EPS] and the FN 3-80. Another point proposed by the group led by El Chacal [Jose Angel Talavera] is the incorporation of FN 3-80 members into the police force in areas where the front has a strong social base and the creation of programs and projects for remaining members to help reincorporate them into civilian life. Other points proposed by the FN 3-80 high command include the discussion of a demobilization calendar. Demobilization will be proportionate to government compliance with its social programs. The FN 3-80 also seeks guarantees for the security of its demobilized men and their reincorporation into civilian life so they can continue their struggle in a civic manner through the Nicaraguan Resistance Party. During the meeting between the FN 3-80 and His Eminence Msgr. Juan Abelardo Mata, the FN 3-80 said the two men described by the EPS as 3-80 Northern Front deserters are mere criminals. Msgr. Abelardo Mata will take the agreed upon proposals before the government. The parties agreed to hold another meeting, but neither a date nor a place has been specified. The good faith of the members of the FN 3-80 guarantees, however, that they will not continue their armed struggle in the country's northern mountains.
