FBIS3-36851 "drsov028_d_94014" FBIS-SOV-94-028 Document Type:Daily Report 10 Feb 1994 Regional Affairs Safety Work Halted at Nuclear Power Station PM1002113594 Moscow ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA in Russian 10 Feb 94 First Edition p 1 PM1002113594 Moscow ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Letter from Bilibino AES collective followed by unattributed report: "Halting AES Is Not Like Closing a Barn"] [Text] An extremely grave situation has taken shape at the Bilibino AES [nuclear electric power station] -- the only source of electricity supplies on Chukotka -- because of consumers' nonpayments for electricity and heating. The deterioration of the financial situation has obliged the station's specialists as of May 1993 to halt all safety work. There were only sufficient funds for current operation. Today the acquisition of equipment which is extremely necessary for the AES' safe operation has stopped completely. Nuclear fuel was last delivered in September. Planned repair is threatened with disruption. Wages are paid with interruptions of two to three months. We are not able even to travel to the funerals of our relations because of the high cost of air tickets. Under northern conditions the inevitable increase in prices for food has brought many specialists to the poverty line. The survival of the entire region depends on us. We are doing everything necessary for the safe operation of the AES. But with every passing day it is becoming harder to do this. Our repeated appeals to the sectorial government organs have brought no tangible results. [Signed] The Bilibino AES collective The editorial office was told at the "Rosenergoatom" state concern that unfortunately the situation is typical of the majority of AES's. Taxpayers' total debts as of today are 351 billion rubles. Because of this other AES's are threatened with stoppage. Matters are no better with regard to the social situation at enterprises. The payment for thermal and electrical energy is through the Russian "Integrated Energy System of Russia" joint stock company, which has managed to collect only 17 percent of the necessary funds. Electric power lines and electrical power stations are under the company's jurisdiction but the function it has assumed as a connecting link between electricity producers and consumer has prove beyond it. Hundreds of nuclear electric power stations are unable to acquire fuel or carry out current repairs.
