FBIS4-63345 "drsov099_a_94009" FBIS-SOV-94-099 Daily Report 22 May 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Yeltsin Aide Apportions Blame for Crimean Crisis Yeltsin Aide Apportions Blame for Crimean Crisis LD2305091294 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service in Russian 2109 GMT 22 May 94 LD2305091294 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service Russian BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Tamara Zamyatina] [Text] Moscow, 23 May (ITAR-TASS) -- "The vacation season in Crimea has begun." This was how Emil Pain, head of the conflict forecasting department of the analysis center under the Russian president, reacted to an ITAR-TASS report about 29 Ukrainian armored personnel carriers appearing on the outskirts of Simferopol. In an interview with the ITAR-TASS correspondent the analyst noted that the situation around Crimea is getting close to a critical point. "All the signs of an uncompromising fight for the integrity of the state are there. But strong-arm methods in taming separatists proved unsuccessful in Azerbaijan, Georgia, Moldova, and Serbia alike," Emil Pain said. "But history never teaches anything," he noted. Unlike many experts, Emil Pain puts the blame for the crisis not only on Ukrainian but also on Crimean politicians. He believes it is possible to speak of the "irresponsibility" of Yuriy Meshkov's supporters, who could have carried out the Crimean authorities' policy without a confrontation with Ukraine. "It was inexpedient to make a decision to change the Crimean Constitution on the eve of the vacation season, because its success could have improved the economic situation in the peninsula," the scientist believes. But he thinks that "Yuriy Meshkov seems to have forgotten that Abkhazia's beaches are no worse than Crimea's beaches, and that no one would wish to spend a vacation in an area of hostilities." The political scientist stated with alarm that most armed conflicts have begun with a change in a certain territory's political status. "This time there should not be a military clash, because the price to pay for it would be not the future of Crimea but global security," he said.
