FBIS3-36153 "drsov023_b_94011" FBIS-SOV-94-023 Document Type:Daily Report 3 Feb 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political Issues Legal Information System Commission Statute PM0302104994 Moscow ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA in Russian 2 Feb 94 First Edition p 4 PM0302104994 Moscow ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA Language: Russian Article Type:BFN ["Statute on the Federal Commission for the Provision of a Legal Information System Under the President of the Russian Federation"] [Text] I. General Provisions 1. The Federal Commission for the Provision of a Legal Information System [Federalnaya Komissiya po Pravovoy Informatizatsiya] under the president of the Russian Federation (hereinafter referred to as the Commission) is a standing deliberative and consultative body under the president of the Russian Federation which ensures the development of a package of measures pertaining to the creation and functioning of a state legal information system and the formation of a single legal information area in Russia which ensures that state bodies, public and other organizations, and citizens are kept well informed on legal matters. In its activity the Commission is accountable to the president of the Russian Federation. The Commission exercises its powers in collaboration with the organs of state power of the Russian Federation and the organs of executive power of the constituent republics of the Russian Federation, krays, oblasts, the autonomous oblast, autonomous okrugs, and the cities of Moscow and St. Petersburg. 2. The Commission is guided in its activity by the Constitution of the Russian Federation, the laws and other normative acts of the Russian Federation, the edicts and directives of the president of the Russian Federation, the decrees of the Government of the Russian Federation, and the present Statute. II. Tasks of the Commission 3. The Commission's basic tasks are: the elaboration of proposals on shaping the strategy of state policy in the sphere of providing Russia with a legal information system; the preparation of a federal program for providing Russia with a legal information system; the preparation and submission to the president of the Russian Federation and to the Government of the Russian Federation of draft normative acts on questions of the provision of legal information and legal support for information processes and information provision. the elaboration of proposals for the coordination of work in the sphere of the drawing up, introduction, and development of Russia's state legal information system, the systematization of legislation, and the preparation of the Code of Laws of the Russian Federation and the Code of Acts of the President and the Government of the Russian Federation; collaboration with the authorized organs of the Commonwealth of Independent States and international organizations on questions pertaining to the creation and the functioning of an interstate legal information system. III. The Powers of the Commisison 4. To tackle the tasks facing it the Commission: prepares findings on laws on questions of the provision of a legal information system, the provision of information, and the data protection, which come to the president of the Russian Federation for his signature; examines and prepares findings on draft edicts and directives of the president of the Russian Federation and decrees and directives of the Government of the Russian Federation on questions of the provision of a legal information system and of legal backup for information processes and the provision of information; makes recommendations on the implementation of decisions of the president (on his instructions) on questions of the provision of a legal information system; carries out the assessment of the state of affairs as regards the legal information backup given to organs of executive authority of the Russian Federation and also organizes the verification of the implementation of edicts and directives of the president of the Russian Federation and of decrees and directives of the Government of the Russian Federation concerning questions of the provision of a legal information system; in accordance with its remit it requests information, documents, and other materials essential for the conduct of the Commission's activity from organs of state management and administration; it recruits representatives of ministries, departments, and law-enforcement agencies and specialists from science and research organizations to carry out its work. 5. The decisions of the Commission on questions of providing a legal information system are implemented through edicts and directives of the president of the Russian Federation and decrees and directives of the Government of the Russian Federation. IV. Organization of the Activity of the Commission 6. The composition of the Commission, including its chairman, is to be confirmed by the president of the Russian Federation. The work of the members of the Commission is to be carried out on a nonremunerative basis. 7. Sessions of the Commision are to be held as and when necessary but at least once a month in accordance with the Commission's work schedule. Decisions at sessions are taken by a majority vote of members present. 8. The Commission may set up working parties for the study of questions regarding the preparation of sessions and the conduct of expert work by the Commision. V. Support of the Work of the Commission 9. Organizational and technical support for the Commission's work is supplied by the appropriate structural subunits of the Administration of the President of the Russian Federation. 10. Legal information support for the activity of the Commission is supplied by the State Legal Administration of the President of the Russian Federation, which is the Commission's working apparatus.
