FBIS3-25044 "drafr025_c_94006" FBIS-AFR-94-025 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Feb 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA Commander Critical of Peacekeeping Force Training MB0702120094 Johannesburg SOWETAN in English 7 Feb 94 p 1 MB0702120094 Johannesburg SOWETAN Language: English Article Type:BFN [Report by political correspondent Themba Molefe] [Text] The National Peacekeeping Force [NPKF] will not be ready by election day on April 26, says its commanding officer, Major General Gabriel Ramushwana. He spoke to SOWETAN last Friday [4 February], shortly before startling allegations of a lack of discipline, desertions and drunkenness within the NPKF's 3,500-strong force outside Bloemfontein hit the headlines. The force was originally scheduled to complete its training at the end of March for deployment in troubled townships in the last four weeks of the election campaign. The force was aimed at ensuring non-partisan policing and was envisaged to grow to 10,000 men and women. Ramushwana was particularly critical of the standard of training of Umkhonto weSizwe [Spear of the Nation; ANC military wing--MK] soldiers in the NPKF. This was also against the background of claims that four MK cadres were dismissed from the De Brug base where the NPKF began training two weeks ago. "I am not hopeful that the national peacekeeping force will be ready in the remaining six weeks it has to prepare for elections," Ramushwana said. He was appointed NPKF commanding officer by the Transitional Executive Council last month. He said he found no basis for allegations that MK soldiers had shouted racist slogans. With regard to problems at NPKF headquarters, ANC spokesman Mr Carl Niehaus said yesterday's news reports were "an overstatement and were calculated to put MK in a bad light". He rejected Ramushwana's claim that MK training was below standard, saying any soldier would have difficulty adjusting to new forms of training. ANC president Mr Nelson Mandela told journalists in Bloemfontein he was confident Ramushwana would be able to sort out the problems.
