FBIS3-51658 "drlat015_m_94001" FBIS-LAT-94-015 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Jan 1994 Brazil Cardoso Denies Presidential Candidacy PY2101192094 Sao Paulo GAZETA MERCANTIL in Portuguese 18 Jan 94 p 6 PY2101192094 Sao Paulo GAZETA MERCANTIL Language: Portuguese Article Type:BFN [Article by Maria Helena Tachinardi] [Text] Colonia -- Finance Minister Fernando Henrique Cardoso said on 17 January in Colonia -- when meeting his Argentine counterpart, Domingo Cavallo --that he is not a candidate for the presidency in the October elections. "I am a candidate to pull the country out of economic difficulties," he said. "I have already told the president, in a letter I addressed to him, that I have no candidacy plan." Concerning a possible presidential candidacy by Cardoso, President Itamar Franco said he received a letter from the finance minister in November saying he is not a candidate. "The important thing is the letter. The minister is thinking of his economic policy, his plan, particularly the plan we have submitted to Congress. The important thing is the letter I have. This does not mean he lost his citizen's rights, his right to vote and to be voted for. At this moment he is not a candidate, and he intends to finish his work at the Finance Ministry. Now if tomorrow he believes he has to step down, it is up to him." According to the BRASIL news agency, Cardoso explained that sometimes it is necessary to make statements like "I will think about it at the right time," in order to courteously reply to a public demonstration promoted by his party (PSDB [Brazilian Social Democracy Party]), like a recent demonstration in Goiania. According to the minister, he never put the political timetable ahead of the economic timetable, and he is certain that Congress will adopt the same behavior during the vote on the government's economic program. "There are no children in Congress," the minister said. He added that everyone knows that the country needs the program: "It is not a personal matter. Everyone knows I have not taken any step toward a candidacy." Hargreaves Concerning the return to his post of former Civilian Household chief Henrique Hargreaves, the president said he has not talked about the issue. "Nothing has been agreed upon. I talked with Minister Hargreaves over the phone. I must know Hargreaves' feelings to know whether he would like to return. The president cannot make a unilateral decision." Lula Says the Minister Is Campaigning The GLOBO news agency reported that PT [Workers Party] President Luis Inacio Lula da Silva on 17 January rebutted the charges pressed by Minister Cardoso, who said over the weekend that the PT has not designed a government plan for Brazil yet because it is still talking with several sectors of society. Lula claimed that the two popular programs under implementation by the Franco government -- food insurance and the transportation fund -- are PT programs. Lula believes Cardoso is campaigning. During a news conference, Lula said the PT National Executive Board has proposed that the CPI's [Congressional Investigating Committee] that will investigate the CUT [Sole Workers Center] and PT campaigns should merge into a single one and should be set in motion as soon as possible.
