FBIS3-13138 "drnes047dd_94007" FBIS-NES-94-047 Document Type:Daily Report 10 Mar 1994 Palestinian Affairs Hamas Urges `Jihad,' Programs `To Deal' With Settlers JN0903102794 Amman AL-DUSTUR in Arabic 9 Mar 94 p 29 JN0903102794 Amman AL-DUSTUR Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [By Tawfiq 'Abid] [Excerpts] Engineer Ibrahim Ghawshah, official spokesman for the Islamic Resistance Movement, Hamas, has urged the other Palestinian forces and factions to develop a jihad and militant program to deal with settlers and Zionist occupation. He said: The Zionist challenge forces all to confront this challenge. The 'Izz-al-Din al-Qassam Battalions [Hamas military wing] have worked out a plan to deal with the phenomenon of settlement, the most dangerous phenomenon of occupation, which stands as the beginning of extending the Zionist entity to any land on which settlements are built. In an interview with AL-DUSTUR, he said the jihad and struggle operations are not coordinated for pure security reasons. Each mujahid and struggling group plans and carries out its independent operations, but these operations should have specific objective and timing. He added: We believe that Palestinian forces, whether they are 'Izz-al-Din al-Qassam Battalions, Fatah Hawks, the Red Eagle, or any another mujahid faction are asked to meet the demands of the Palestinian people and the Arab and Islamic nations by taking revenge on criminal Zionists and give a clear signal to the world that the Jewish blood is not dearer than the Arab or Muslim blood. Ghawshah was answering a question on coordination between the members of Alliance of the Palestinian Forces [APF], or between Fatah and Hamas, to retaliate against the holy Ibrahimi Mosque massacre. He said: There are some technical obstacles such as curfew, siege, and restrictions imposed by occupation. These measures may delay the retaliation, but certainly a good chance will come and should be used with full force, sacrifice, and determination. [passage omitted] He concluded his interview by saying the APF will hold a meeting in Damascus on 20 March to discuss organizational and political issues. He said an APF delegation will be formed to visit the Libyan Jamahiriyah this month. The visit will be the beginning of other visits that will include a large number of Arab and Islamic countries, including Iran.
