FBIS4-36374 "drnes110dd_94014" FBIS-NES-94-110 Daily Report 7 Jun 1994 Palestinian Affairs Struggle To Bolster Status in Jerusalem Continues Struggle To Bolster Status in Jerusalem Continues TA0706193294 Jerusalem Israel Television Channel 1 Network in Hebrew 1800 GMT 7 Jun 94 TA0706193294 Jerusalem Israel Television Channel 1 Network in Hebrew 1800 GMT 7 Jun 94 Hebrew BFN [Report by Linda Sherzer -- italicized passages in English; speakers identified by on-screen caption] [Text] Palestinian leaders in East Jerusalem today accused Israel of violating their rights by restricting their political presence in the city. Our correspondent Linda Sherzer reports from a meeting that took place at Orient House today: [Begin recording] [Sherzer] When foreign consular officials came to Orient House for a briefing from the Palestinians regarding the situation in the city, they were told that, excluding Foreign Minister Peres' letter on Jerusalem, Israel is trying to undermine the Palestinian status in the city. At the same time, they denied claims that Orient House has become a colony of the autonomy directorate. Are you effectively running the autonomy from these offices in East Jerusalem? [Faysal al-Husayni] No, no, no, not at all. [Sherzer] Despite the Israeli warnings that it might shut down Orient House and other Palestinian institutions, al-Husayni and his colleagues are determined to strengthen their status in the city. In a meeting at Orient House last night, the participants decided to recommend that a special fund be set up to support the Palestinian status in the city, mainly through constructing residential buildings on waqf-owned land. Al-Husayni seeks to establish a special council on Jerusalem affairs and will devote himself to this issue alone. It was further declared that institutions such as this represent all of the Palestinians, not only the residents of Jerusalem. [Mahdi 'Abd-al-Hadi] No Palestinian National Authority can maintain its credibility, its future, and its -- what you call it -- law and order position without its linkage to Jerusalem. And you cannot close the file of Jerusalem by telling us: this institution yes, this maybe, and this is questionable. It is not a question of institution. It is a question of life and death for us. [end recording]
