FBIS3-57762 "drsov020_a_94003" FBIS-SOV-94-020 Document Type:Daily Report 31 Jan 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Ends Visit, Departs for Moscow LD2901123394 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1212 GMT 29 Jan 94 LD2901123394 Moscow ITAR-TASS Language: English Article Type:BFN [By ITAR-TASS special correspondent Georgiy Shmelev] [Text] Beijing January 29 TASS -- Russian Foreign Minister Andrey Kozyrev met the leaders of the north-western Chinese province of Shaanxi in the ancient Chinese capital of Xian on Saturday [29 January], the final day of his official visit to China. At the meeting, the sides discussed how to boost bilateral trade and economic relations. The Russian minister also visited a museum of terracotta figurines made in the epoch of first Chinese emperor Qinshihuang (3d century B.C.) and made a sight-seeing tour of Xian. During the four-day visit, Kozyrev held talks with his Chinese counterpart Qian Qichen. The sides confirmed mutual desire for the development of political, trade, economic and military cooperation, pointing to the need for raising Russian-Chinese relations to a higher level of constructive partnership. They stressed the importance of cooperation between the two great powers in maintaining stability in the Asia-Pacific region and throughout the world. The sides signed two documents on the results of the talks: An intergovernment agreement on check points on the Russian-Chinese border. The agreement will streamline and simplify the inspection and passage regime. They also signed a protocol on political consultations between the Russian and Chinese Foreign Ministries. Kozyrev had meetings with the country's leaders -- the Chinese Republic's Chairman Jiang Zemin and Premier Li Peng. The Russian minister conveyed a personal message from Russian President Boris Yeltsin to the head of the Chinese state, containing an invitation to come to Russia on an official visit. In compliance with an understanding reached during the Russian minister's visit, the second Russian-Chinese summit is planned for the third quarter of this year. It will be preceded by trips of Russian Premier Viktor Chernomyrdin to Beijing and Chinese Foreign Minister Qian Qichen to Moscow. Kozyrev also confirmed an invitation to Premier Li Peng to visit Russia. The Russian foreign minister toured Shenzhen, a special economic zone in the country's south. Kozyrev departed for home in the evening, local time.
