FBIS4-24877 "drchi107_d_94002" FBIS-CHI-94-107 Daily Report 2 Jun 1994 Northeast Asia Japanese, PRC Officials Discuss State of Relations Japanese, PRC Officials Discuss State of Relations OW0206171194 Beijing XINHUA Domestic Service in Chinese 1357 GMT 2 Jun 94 OW0206171194 Beijing XINHUA Domestic Service Chinese BFN [Text] Tokyo, 2 Jun (XINHUA) -- Japanese Foreign Minister Koji Kakizawa met with visiting Chinese Vice Foreign Minister Tang Jiaxuan here today. Both sides had a cordial conversation in a friendly atmosphere. Koji Kakizawa expressed satisfaction with the smooth development of Japanese-Chinese relations. He held that both sides should strive to build full-blown cooperative relations that are geared to the future and that will make a contribution to world peace. Tang Jiaxuan agreed. Referring to the incident in which some people in Japan recently made remarks negating Japan's history of aggression, Kakizawa said Prime Minister Hata and he too have made known their positions and adopted measures in this connection. He said: The Japanese Government would like to reiterate that it will continue to work hard for the development of Sino-Japanese relations, while reflecting on Japan's past history. Tang Jiaxuan reiterated the Chinese Government's principled stand on dealing with history correctly, adding the Chinese Government appreciates the wise attitude adopted by the Japanese Government. Tang Jiaxuan conveyed to Kakizawa Chinese Vice Premier and Foreign Minister Qian Qichen's regards. Kakizawa expressed his gratitude and said he hoped for an opportunity to visit China. Tang Jiaxuan is here for the 13th round of regular consultations between the foreign ministries of the two countries. On 1 June, Tang and his Japanese counterpart, Hiroshi Fukuda, exchanged views in a friendly, frank, and deep-going way on Sino-Japanese relations and on international issues of common interest. They achieved consensus on a wide range of issues. Tang Jiaxuan also met with Yoshiro Mori, secretary general of LDP; Kubo Wataru, secretary general of the Japan Socialist Party; Ichikawa Yuichi, secretary general of Komeito; and Masaharu Gotoda, head of the Japan-China Friendship Club.
