FBIS3-3249 "drchi053_n_94009" FBIS-CHI-94-053 Document Type:Daily Report 16 Mar 1994 Economic & Agricultural XINHUA Mailbox Discusses Value-Added Tax OW1603113294 Beijing XINHUA Domestic Service in Chinese 2122 GMT 16 Mar 94 OW1603113294 Beijing XINHUA Domestic Service Language: Chinese Article Type:BFN ["XINHUA Mailbox -- Questions and Answers on New Tax System: What Are the Specific Contents of the Value-Added Tax?"] [Text] Beijing, 11 Mar (XINHUA) -- The current value-added tax [VAT] adopts a scheme consisting of a basic rate and a low rate: the basic rate is 17 per cent while the low rate is 13 percent. A zero tax rate will be applicable to export commodities, which means once a product has been declared at customs and exported, all tax payments will be refunded. According to the current VAT, sales of the following goods are subject to a low tax rate: (1) grains and edible vegetable oil; (2) water, central heating, air conditioning, hot water, coal gas, liquefied petroleum gas, natural gas, methane, and household-use coal-related products; (3) books, newspapers, and magazines; (4) foodstuff, chemical fertilizers, pesticides, farm machinery, and agriculture-use vinyl sheets; and (5) other merchandise as may be prescribed by the State Council. A 13-percent tax rate has been fixed on the aforementioned goods, be they sold by industry or commerce. Sales tax is arrived at by multiplying the sales amount by the fixed VAT rate. Sales tax is to be computed by the seller according to the fixed rate. Purchase tax refers to the tax amount stated in a purchase invoice when an enterprise pays for the goods, including the sales tax paid at a previous taxation stage for the goods purchased. The sales tax paid by an enterprise minus the purchase tax will be the taxable amount. When a taxable amount is in the negative, it may be offset in the next transaction. The sales amount mentioned above is exclusive of tax. Which type of purchase tax amount is not deductible from the sales tax? Specifically, this includes the following categories: (1) purchases of fixed assets; (2) purchases of goods or taxable services not for use by an enterprise in its commodity production or not for resale; (3) purchases of goods or taxable services by an enterprise for use in production of duty-free commodities; (4) purchases of goods or taxable services for collective welfare or personal consumption; (5) purchased goods sustaining losses due to damage not through normal wear and tear; (6) purchased goods or taxable services used in unfinished or finished products sustaining losses due to damage not through normal wear and tear.
