FBIS3-46443 "drchi020_e_94002" FBIS-CHI-94-020 Document Type:Daily Report 31 Jan 1994 Southeast Asia & Pacific Philippine Investors Form Joint Venture To Launch Satellite OW2801134694 Beijing XINHUA in English 1236 GMT 28 Jan 94 OW2801134694 Beijing XINHUA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Manila, January 28 (XINHUA) -- A group of Chinese investors and their Filipino counterparts today formed a joint venture company that will operate the first communications satellite for the Philippines. The joint venture, named as the Philippine Satellite Consortium, was created in compliance with a contract signed by Beijing Highden Enterprise Ltd., subsidiary of China Everbright Group Companies, and a Philippine consortium led by the CLMC Group. Lu Changsheng, director and president of the Beijing Highden, said the Philippine Satellite Consortium will buy and launch a communications satellite for the country in two to three years upon the approval by the government of the joint venture project. The project, dubbed as "Philippines Satellite 2000," will require at least 200 million U.S. dollars, Lu said. It is one of the joint ventures agreed by the Filipino and Chinese investors during President Fidel Ramos' state visit to China last April. China has committed the Philippine Government that the satellite will be totally owned, controlled and operated by Filipinos. Roberto de Vevenia, president of the CLMC Group, said during a press conference held here today that the Philippines is fully confident of the Chinese technologies in the manufacturing and launching of satellites. Therefore, he said the China Great Wall Industry Corporation (CGWIC), the only government-authorized company responsible for and providing launching services of commercial rockets and manufacture of communications satellites, is one of the strongest competitors for the project. The CGWIC has already launched three communications satellites and two scientific experiment satellites for users from Hong Kong, Australia, Pakistan and Sweden since it began providing launching service for foreign users in 1990.
