FBIS3-28435 "dreas025_c_94013" FBIS-EAS-94-025 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Feb 1994 North Korea Daily Asserts Kim Yong-sam `Must Be Removed' SK0502044794 Pyongyang KCNA in English 0430 GMT 5 Feb 94 SK0502044794 Pyongyang KCNA Language: English Article Type:BFN ["`Civilian' Fascist Dictator Must Be Removed"--KCNA headline] [Text] Pyongyang, February 5 (KCNA) -- NODONG SINMUN today says that Kim Yong-sam the fascist dictator wearing the "civilian" mask must be removed. The author of the article says: His puppet regime is a more truculent, anti-democratic fascist dictatorial one than any of the successive military dictatorial regimes. Though the Kim Yong-sam fascist clique is wearing the "civilian" veil, it is, in actuality, relentlessly challenging the South Korean people's desire for independence, democracy and reunification with its cruel fascist repressive rule as the successive military dictators did. It, first of all, has kept intact all the fascist legal and institutional ruling systems of the preceding military fascist dictatorial regimes, enhanced their function and drastically reinforced them. The "civilian" fascists are harshly suppressing the patriotic forces calling for independence and democracy in South Korea and for national reunification. The Kim Yong-sam fascist clique ruthlessly cracked down with a 100,000-strong police force on the struggle of the popular masses urging the investigation into the Kwangju massacre, punishment of the murderers and establishment of a genuine democratic government, which was waged on the lapse of 13 years since the Kwangju popular uprising. The theaters of the students' struggle have been stained with blood and many core elements of the youth arrested, in South Korea. The fascist clique brutally suppressed the people's struggle for vital rights by invoking the "government" power, calling it "collective egoism." It set in motion even the notorious "emergency arbitration power" invented in the period of the "Yusin" dictatorship. It is now mobilizing all the puppet police to check the struggle of the peasants and other people against its treacherous opening of the domestic rice market. It is the traitor Kim Yong-sam and his "civilian" regime that would not hesitate to slay all the South Korean people, if it is for gratifying his greed for power and maintaining the fascist regime, regarding all the forces obstructive to it as the target of suppression. The Kim Yong-sam puppet regime prolonging its days in reliance on the fascist bayonets, estranged from the people, must be removed in time.
