FBIS4-40913 "drsov119_m_94003" FBIS-SOV-94-119 Daily Report 21 Jun 1994 Tajikistan Russian Ambassador Comments on Security Situation Russian Ambassador Comments on Security Situation LD2106104494 Moscow Ostankino Television First Channel Network in Russian 0500 GMT 21 Jun 94 LD2106104494 Moscow Ostankino Television First Channel Network Russian BFN [Text] The murder of military personnel and state officials in Tajikistan has become an epidemic. Three republican Internal Affairs Ministry officials were killed in a Dushanbe suburb the other day. Two others are still missing. Another 12 people have been injured as a result of a sortie by Tajik opposition guerrillas. All this is despite highly encouraging information arriving from Tehran, where inter-Tajik talks are being held. [Nikulin] A series of acts of terrorism have been committed in Tajikistan since the start of June. The principal victims have been servicemen of the collective peacekeeping forces, the Russian border troops and the Tajik Defense Ministry. These incidents worried the public at large. Nobody in the Republic doubts that these deeds were carefully planned in advance and that their aim is to destabilize the sociopolitical situation and to wreck the second round of inter-Tajik talks which has begun in Tehran. Concerned at the rampage of crime, foreign missions and embassies accredited in Tajikistan are taking steps to guarantee the safety of their staff. The U.S. State Department has even advised its citizens to avoid trips to this Central Asian republic for the time being. But, no doubt, the greatest alarm at the events taking place here is felt at the Russian Embassy. After all, most of the officers who have been killed by terrorists have been Russian. [Sinkevich] As ambassador, I have every reason to state quite authoritatively, on behalf of my government, that Russia will not sit idly by. It will take all necessary steps to guarantee the safety of Russian servicemen and our fellow-countrymen. Russia reserves the right to use all the resources at its disposal to this end. We hope that the same resources will be deployed by the Government of Tajikistan.
