FBIS4-46928 "jpusr062___94039" FBIS-USR-94-062 JPRS FBIS Report: Central Eurasia 3 June 1994 RUSSIA REGIONAL AFFAIRS News From St Petersburg News From St Petersburg Statistics Show Poor Draftee Quality 944E0896D St. Petersburg SMENA in Russian 3 Jun 94 p 1 944E0896D St. Petersburg SMENA Russian CSO [Article by Vladimir Kovalev, under the rubric "Problem": "There Was Once Such a Profession as Defending the Motherland"] [Text] As of today, 1,750 young residents of St. Petersburg have refused to report to military commissariats. Yesterday, Deputy Mayor Vladimir Putin held a conference at the Smolnyy on the issues of military draft. It was announced that the fall draft had not been completely finished until March. In the process, 16,000 people from St. Petersburg were drafted into the ranks of the Armed Forces. Participants in the conference noted that the number of draftees without a secondary education has increased sharply in the last three years. Some 35 percent "admitted they have used drugs." Strange as it may be, only one-quarter of the total number of latter-day servicemen "consume alcohol." Many young men are seriously ill; as a result, one in three is found unfit for service. Participants in the conference expressed their dissatisfaction with "legal nihilism mounting" among young people recently: As of today, 1,750 people have refused to report to military commissariats. In conjunction with this, the issue of coordinating the efforts of military commissariats, the militia, the procuracy, educational establishments, and rayon administrations was raised at the conference once again. These structures intend to work out soon a concept in keeping with which rules specifying the draft system in St. Petersburg will be approved. Representatives of the Leningrad Military District gave hope to the draftees of St. Petersburg by informing them that there is no threat of service far away from home, noting in the process that "young people who already have their own families will definitely serve in the vicinity of St. Petersburg." It is planned that only servicemen who have served for no less than half a year will be sent to the "hot spots" of our country, and then only on a voluntary basis.
