FBIS3-27303 "drchi036_w_94008" FBIS-CHI-94-036 Document Type:Daily Report 23 Feb 1994 HONG KONG & MACAO Hong Kong PRC Dissident Han Dongfang Given Union Research Job HK2302073294 Hong Kong EASTERN EXPRESS in English 23 Feb 94 p 3 HK2302073294 Hong Kong EASTERN EXPRESS Language: English Article Type:BFN [By Stacy Mosher] [Text] Mainland political dissident Han Dongfang has taken his first step towards establishing himself in Hong Kong, by taking a job. Yesterday the Hong Kong Christian Industrial Committee (CIC) announced Han had accepted a job for a year as a staff researcher, with a salary of about $10,000 a month. The committee said Han would be responsible for "research in trade unionism in support of CIC's long-standing programme of trade union education and the promotion of solidarity among workers in different parts of the world". The committee said Han's proven commitment to the labour movement and his Christian beliefs made him a valued addition to its staff. Han led protests by nonofficial labour unions in Beijing during the stormy run-up to the violent government crackdown on June 4, 1989. After spending nearly a year in prison, he was allowed to leave China with his wife, to seek medical treatment in the United States in September 1992, for tuberculosis. In August Han attempted to return to China through Hong Kong, but was turned away by Chinese authorities. Subsequent attempts to go back have also failed. Han has remained in Hong Kong on a special one-month renewable visa for more than six months. A legislative councillor, Lau Chin-shek, and the director of Asia Watch, Robin Munro, have been his main supporters. Han says Hong Kong will be his base for now, as he continues his work for the Chinese labour movement. A friend of Han's in Hong Kong said the committee would not forbid Han from making further attempts to return to China. Han applied for a work visa before the lunar new year, and was granted one on Monday. His wife and one-year-old son remain in the US. Han has no immediate plans to apply for them to come to Hong Kong.
