FBIS3-5609 "dreas046_a_94004" FBIS-EAS-94-046 Document Type:Daily Report 9 March 1994 NORTHEAST ASIA Japan Further on U.S. Secretary of State's Visit OW0903100994 Tokyo KYODO in English 0938 GMT 9 Mar 94 OW0903100994 Tokyo KYODO Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Tokyo, March 9 KYODO -- U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher flies to Tokyo Wednesday [9 March] night for the first direct top-level contact between Japan and the U.S. since President Bill Clinton and Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa met in Washington last month. During his three-day visit, Christopher will meet Hosokawa and Foreign Minister Tsutomu Hata on Thursday for talks on bilateral economic problems. Hata and Christopher will also hold "two-plus-two" ministerial security talks with Defense Agency chief Kazuo Aichi and U.S. Undersecretary of Defense Frank Wisner on Friday morning. Bilateral relations took a turn for the worse last month when Clinton and Hosokawa announced the collapse of bilateral trade "framework" negotiations aimed at redressing Japan's more than 60 billion dollar trade surplus with the United States. That prompted the U.S. Government to reinstate a trade law known as "Super 301" which gives it powers to impose sanctions against countries it holds guilty of unfair trade practices. The action is widely understood to be aimed at pressuring Japan into opening its market and reducing its trade surplus. Foreign ministry sources said the failed talks are likely to be high on the agenda. The Japanese are expected to explain their market-opening package and seek U.S. understanding, while expressing concern over the reinstatement of Super 301, according to the sources. Hosokawa and Christopher are also likely to discuss China, since Christopher will fly to Beijing after leaving Tokyo on Friday and Hosokawa is scheduled to visit China from March 19 to 21. Christopher will also attend an international conference on aid to Cambodia in Tokyo on Thursday and deliver a speech to business leaders on Friday.
