FBIS4-19013 "drweu071__a94020" FBIS-WEU-94-071-A Daily Report 13 April 1994 ANNEX Italy & Vatican City Foreign Ministry Reports on Evacuation in Rwanda Foreign Ministry Reports on Evacuation in Rwanda BR1304074694 Rome ANSAMAIL Database in English 2141 GMT 12 Apr 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY BR1304074694 Rome ANSAMAIL Database English BFN [Unattributed article: "Rwanda/Italy: Foreign Ministry Reports on Evacuees"] [Text] (ANSA) Rome, April 12 -- An Italian Air Force C-130 transport plane evacuated forty Italian nationals from the Rwandan capital of Kigali to Nairobi today and another twenty Italians were aboard a Belgian flight while the flights of Italian aircraft were opened to other foreigners wanting to leave Kigali, the Foreign Ministry reported here. In the midst of reports of escalating hostilities in the capital of the violence-torn central African country, the ministry said the C-130 flown to Kigali today carried from Nairobi Italian paratroopers and other members of the military who were immediately deployed with Belgian and French forces in the capital to safeguard the airport and assist with evacuation operations. Another Air Force C-130 was reported to have landed at the Kigali airport in the evening to continue the evacuation of expatriates. Eighty more Italian Army paratroopers were scheduled to arrive in the evening today aboard an Air Force Boeing 707 which will turn around tomorrow to air lift out other Italian civilians. The Foreign Ministry said a group of twenty Italians were due to arrive in the Rwandan capital from the east and another twenty were coming from Gitarama. Eleven Italians working for the nongovernmental organization Giuseppe Tovini, with five Belgian nationals and forty Rwandan orphans who will be brought to Italy, had been blocked in Riilima by the advance of rebel forces but were now making their way to Kigali. The evacuation of the volunteer workers, the Belgians and their charges, said the Foreign Minister, was made possible by Belgian troops who acted on an appeal issued by the Italian government. The evacuation of Italians, said the ministry, is coordinated by the embassies in Kampala and Nairobi with the ambassador to Kampala in Kigali since yesterday to follow developments at first hand. The entire operation is going forward under the management of the ministry's crisis unit and the Chiefs-of-Staff's operations center. Further evacuation flights will be scheduled according to security factors and in cooperation with Belgian and French forces, said the ministry. Two Italian Air Force planes, a G-222 and a Boeing 707, took off from the Pisa Air Base this evening bound for Nairobi with equipment and eighty paratroopers of the Col Moschin battalion who will join in Rwanda 80 Italian troops sent Sunday aboard three C-130 transport planes.
