FBIS4-17176 "drsov078_d_94017" FBIS-SOV-94-078 Daily Report 20 Apr 1994 Regional Affairs `Around-the-Clock' Monitoring of Koryak Volcano `Around-the-Clock' Monitoring of Koryak Volcano PM2104100594 Moscow TRUD in Russian 20 Apr 94 p 4 PM2104100594 Moscow TRUD Russian BFN [Boris Kolosov report: "The Volcano Has Stirred, It Has Stretched..."] [Text] Petropavlovsk-Kamchatskiy -- Petropavlovsk-Kamchatskiy is on the alert. Having laid dormant for many years, the Koryak Volcano, whose white bulk is an integral part of the city landscape, has started to show signs of life.... Since the beginning of March, seismological stations affiliated to the Institute of Volcanology have been recording weak but ever more frequent earth tremors at the foot of the mountain. This is an unusual phenomenon, because nothing like it has been seen in 40 years. Stanislav Balesta, doctor of geological and mineralogical sciences and deputy director of the Institute of Volcanology, explains: "The fact that the cluster of earth tremors beneath the Koryak Volcano are occuring at a depth of between two and 15 kilometers indicates that it is pushing magma up toward the surface. There are two possibilities for the further development of events: The volcano's internal energy may turn out to be insufficient, and the earth tremors will stop after a while; or, should there be a further strengthening of seismic activity, a powerful eruption will be unavoidable. It is quite possible that the situation will be resolved in the next few weeks." Meanwhile, volcanologists have addressed the Kamchatka Oblast Administration in an official capacity with a warning of the possible danger. FROM OUR FILES: The Koryak Volcano (3,456 meters high) is located in the direct vicinity of the cities of Petropavlovsk and Yelizovo. The 100-year silence on the part of this rocky giant may be proof that sufficient energy has accumulated in its bowels to render it capable of producing an explosive eruption. Depending on the direction of the explosion, it is not only the populated areas but also the numerous dacha sites located literally at the foot of the sleeping mountain which may be placed in serious jeopardy. Around-the-clock monitoring of the status of the Koryak Volcano is now being carried out. Residents are advised to listen to local radio frequently, and as far as possible not to switch it off at night.
