FBIS3-20757 "jpeer008__s94022" JPRS-EER-94-008-S Document Type:JPRS Document Title:East Europe SUPPLEMENT 10 March 1994 POLAND New BBWR Head Zbigniew Religa Profiled 94P20418B Poznan WPROST in Polish No 4, 23 Jan 94 p 6 94P20418B Poznan WPROST Language: Polish Article Type:CSO [Unattributed article under the rubric "People": "Zbigniew Religa"] [Text] Professor Zbigniew Religa was elected the new president of the Non-Party Bloc in Support of Reform (BBWR). "As long as my name is already associated with the BBWR, I would like that this group be something I can be proud of. For this to be so, I realized that I would have to become active in it," said Senator Religa. He also stated that the BBWR would soon be converted into a political party. The Bloc leader to date, Jacek Lipinski, resigned. Zbigniew Religa was born on 16 December 1938 in Miedniew. He graduated from the Department of Cardiosurgery of the Academy of Medicine in Warsaw in 1963. During the 1970's, he held research training positions at Mercy Hospital Rockville Center and the Deborah Heart and Lung Center in New York, and at Sinai Hospital in Detroit. He worked at, among other places, the Warsaw Institute of Cardiology and at the II Clinic of Cardiosurgery. Since 1984, he has been director of the Chair of Cardiosurgery at the Silesian Medical Academy in Katowice and at the Cardiosurgery Clinic in Zabrze. Religa established the Foundation for the Development of Cardiosurgery and also created the Research and Training Center for the purpose of research on biological valves and artificial hearts. He firmly established his popularity by organizing charity concerts. In the future, he plans to open an International Medical Center in Zabrze. Prof. Religa worked out his own method of operating on hipoplasia of the left side of the heart and its transplant. He is the author of over 50 works on the subject of cardiosurgery. In the last parliamentary elections, he won a record number of votes and was named Senate candidate under BBWR auspices. Prof. Religa is married and has a son and a daughter. His hobby is angling.
