FBIS4-26374 "drchi120_w_94003" FBIS-CHI-94-120 Daily Report 20 Jun 1994 HONG KONG & MACAO Hong Kong Beijing Says Mission Staff Recruitment Not Studied Beijing Says Mission Staff Recruitment Not Studied HK2006064794 Hong Kong HONGKONG STANDARD in English 20 Jun 94 p 4 HK2006064794 Hong Kong HONGKONG STANDARD English BFN [By M.Y. Sung in Beijing] [Text] China has dismissed diplomatic concerns that it might plant spies and informers in foreign consulates in Hong Kong after 1997. Diplomatic missions in the territory fear a Foreign Ministry-run government agency might centralise their supply of local staff when Hong Kong reverts to Chinese rule in 1997. Under the Basic Law, the Central People's Government will be responsible for foreign affairs in the Special Administrative Region (SAR). But China's Ministry of Foreign Affairs told The HONGKONG STANDARD it had no intention of changing current consulate practices which allow foreign diplomatic missions in the territory absolute freedom to recruit their own staff. In a statement, the Foreign Ministry said all consulate-related matters would be further examined, but that basically China was unwilling to change the territory's usual practices. "After China's resumption of the exercise of sovereignty over Hong Kong, the present system will basically remain unchanged," the Foreign Ministry said. Staff such as office clerks, interpreters, drivers or domestic helpers at diplomats' residences are usually recruited through public advertisements in local newspapers. Sources argued the practice of planting bugs and spies in foreign diplomatic missions was not only used by communist countries but also by many Western nations. "Under the present staff recruitment rules, spies and informers can still mingle in foreign consulates in Hong Kong," a source said. The question of whether new recruitment rules will be introduced for the territory's foreign consulates is a very "minor issue to China. "A principle has been stipulated under the Basic Law on the questions concerning the establishment of foreign consulates in Hong Kong," the Foreign Ministry statement said. Foreign Ministry spokesman Shen Guofeng explained that foreign affairs issues in Hong Kong would be handled by China under the Basic Law provisions which referred to major diplomatic policy. "The Foreign Ministry will not take care of those small concrete things," Mr Shen said, referring to staff recruitment for foreign diplomatic missions in Hong Kong. "The local staff recruitment rules for consulates are among considerable number of matter that have not yet been fully studied by the Foreign Ministry."
