FBIS3-24334 "jpusr002__l94006" FBIS-USR-94-002-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title: FBIS Report: Central Eurasia 25 March 1994 INTERSTATE AFFAIRS Protocol on Cooperation Between RF, Georgian Foreign Ministries 944Q0222C Moscow DIPLOMATICHESKIY VESTNIK in Russian No 1-2, Jan 94 [Signed to press 24 Jan 94] pp 47-48 --FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 944Q0222C Moscow DIPLOMATICHESKIY VESTNIK Language: Russian Article Type:CSO [Text: "Protocol on Cooperation between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Georgia"] [Text] Protocol on Cooperation between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Georgia The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Georgia, hereinafter called the Parties, considering it useful to have consultations and also exchange of opinions on different levels on questions of bilateral relations and regional and international problems of mutual interest, and desiring to promote effective solutions to questions of mutually advantageous cooperation, have agreed as follows. Article 1 The Parties will hold regular consultations and talks at the level of ministers of foreign affairs and other levels on international, regional, and bilateral questions of mutual interest. Expert and working groups may be formed by mutual consent to review specific questions. Article 2 The Parties determine the agenda, time, and place of conducting talks and consultations ahead of time, by agreement. Meetings of the ministers of foreign affairs of the Russian Federation and the Republic of Georgia or other persons assigned by them will be held at least once every 6 months in Moscow and Tbilisi alternately. Article 3 The Parties will cooperate and consult for the purpose of coordinating positions within the framework of international and regional organizations and forums. The Parties will devote special attention to consideration of problems related to ensuring security and cooperation in Europe and in the Transcaucasian region. The Parties consider cooperation and interaction within the CIS to be of paramount importance. Article 4 The Parties will create favorable conditions for furthering cooperation between diplomatic services and carry on direct contacts and familiarization with one another's know-how by means of exchanging trainees, organizing seminars and joint studies, and setting up various forms of direct ties between them. Article 5 The Parties will cooperate and interact on the level of diplomatic and consular offices of the Russian Federation and the Republic of Georgia in third countries. Questions linked to the use of the infrastructure of Russian overseas institutions in the interests of the Georgian Party will be a subject of consultation and separate agreement. Article 6 Additions and modifications to the present protocol may be made by agreement of the Parties. Article 7 The present Protocol goes into effect upon signing and will be effective for 5 years. It will be extended automatically for the next 5 years unless, 6 months before expiration of the 5-year period, one of the Parties sends the other Party written notice of its desire to terminate its action. Completed in the city of Tbilisi on 27 December 1993 in two copies, one in Russian and one in Georgian, with both texts of equal force. For the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation--A. Adamishin For the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Georgia--A. Chikvaidze
