FBIS4-67496 "jpten013___94019" JPRS-TEN-94-013 JPRS Environmental Issues 5 May 1994 LATIN AMERICA CUBA Castro Speaks on Environmental Issues in Barbados Castro Speaks on Environmental Issues in Barbados FL0505222794 Havana Radio Reloj Network in Spanish 1932 GMT 5 May 94 FL0505222794 Havana Radio Reloj Network Spanish BFN [Text] There cannot be sustainable development for a part of the world, and underdevelopment for the rest. This was said by Cuban President Fidel Castro on 5 May at the First International Small Island Nations Conference. In his address to the plenum of the summit, comprising approximately 50 delegations in Barbados, Fidel pointed out that the problem of sustainable development will not be solved unless there is a more equitable distribution of the world's wealth. Fidel added: We are islands a few meters above sea level. We ask ourselves what will happen when the water level rises, and whether we will be able to withstand the droughts, hurricanes, and other weather disasters awaiting us. Fidel also pointed out: We are not responsible for this; others colonized and exploited us. Consumer societies have destroyed the environment. Commander in chief Fidel Castro today emphasized that while annual per capita income of Switzerland is $34,000; Bangladesh, with over 100 million habitants, and in danger of disappearing underwater, has a per capita income of barely $210. Castro said this during the 5 May session of the First International Small Island Nations Conference being held in Bridgetown, Barbados. Castro added that the arms race continues, weapons sales are on the increase, the most powerful nations sell the most weapons, and do not mind profiting from the deaths of others. Why should they care about the environment and the fact that islands are sinking underwater? All the heads of state and government present in Barbados are participating in today's meeting; they are scheduled, on 6 May, to approve a program for action on sustainable development for small island nations.
