FBIS4-14769 "drsov064_b_94022" FBIS-SOV-94-064 Daily Report 1 Apr 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political Issues Official Says Airbus Crew Not Responsible for Crash Official Says Airbus Crew Not Responsible for Crash LD0104154594 Moscow INTERFAX in English 1333 GMT 1 Apr 94 LD0104154594 Moscow INTERFAX English BFN [Text] Valeriy Eksuzian, Director General of the Russian Airlines (RAL), told Interfax that the crew of the A-310-300 airliner was not to blame for the crash in the vicinity of Mezhdurechensk on March 22. Nevertheless, Eksuzian emphasized, it would be premature to make any final conclusions. What happened immediately before the crash could not be determined before the "black boxes" are completely decoded. That information must be brought from Paris to Moscow by members of the investigating commission. Eksuzian believed that two or three days might be needed to have the full story known and determine the cause of the crash. What data was available now suggested that the situation was highly complicated. From the analysis of the radio exchange, "the plane started to act in ways which were not programmed into the autopilot. Judging by their exclamations, the crew was initially greatly surprised." Then the plane suddenly turned left and continued spontaneous maneuvers which resulted in an abrupt plunge and the eventual crash. The whole chain of events took two minutes and 13 seconds. The navigation equipment did not allow for sudden left turns of the plane. Eksuzian said, however, that no conclusions could be made at this moment. He said that the investigation had been joined by test pilots of the Gromov Institute in the town of Zhukovskiy, Moscow Region. It is not until the conclusions made by the test pilots and the investigation commission members are compared with the decoded data of the "black boxes" that a final judgement could be made. Eksuzian described as crude falsification the report of the French TF-1 channel which had quoted an anonymous witness as saying that none of the crew members had been present in the cockpit immediately before the crash. Eksuzian also said that a chemical analysis of internal organ and brain tissues of the crew had shown a high, about six percent, content of carbon monoxide. The gas had also been found in three or four passengers. The causes of this remained unknown, Eksuzian said. As of today, 45 out of the 63 bodies of passengers have been identified. A total of 75 passengers and crew were killed in the crash of the plane en route from Moscow to Hongkong.
