FBIS3-15142 "drsov042_t_94008" FBIS-SOV-94-042 Document Type:Daily Report 3 Mar 1994 BALTIC STATES Estonia Further on Reasons for Breakdown LD0203192894 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1829 GMT 2 Mar 94 LD0203192894 Moscow ITAR-TASS Language: English Article Type:BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Albert Maloveryan] [Text] Tallinn March 2 TASS -- Estonia intends to take its territorial dispute with Russia to International Court of Justice in The Hague, said Vaino Reinart, head of the Estonian negotiating team to talks with Russia, the 17th round of which ended in Tallinn. In his words, "regarding the 1920 Tartu peace treaty as the only basis of its relations with Russia, Estonia insists that part of the present Leningrad and Pskov regions be given back to it". Commenting on the results of the talks, Russian negotiating chief Vasiliy Svirin told reporters that his country was above all guided by the principle of inviolability of frontiers sealed by the Concluding Act of the 1975 Helsinki Conference. As for the progress of Russian-Estonian talks on the whole, the heads of the two negotiating teams expressed dissatisfaction about their results. The agreement on troop withdrawal was never signed. The Russian side demands that security guarantees for military pensioners and members of their families form part of this agreement, while Estonia agrees to discuss this issue only upon presentation of a schedule for pulling out the 2,600 Russian troops still staying on Estonian territory. Apart from this, Svirin noted, the Russian delegation to the talks is concerned over Estonia's deviation from earlier signed agreements on mutual claims. Under these agreements, Russia is to transfer to the Baltic state 4,900 military installations on its territory, and Estonia is to refrain from any claims for ecological damage it incurred. Furthermore, Estonia is to allocate 23 million dollars for accommodating Russian servicemen leaving the republic. Following Estonia's departure from these agreements, Svirin said, Russia will be forced to withdraw the remaining troops according to a schedule set by it unilaterally. This means that Russia may go back on the earlier fixed deadline for troop pullout, August 31, 1994. And by accusing Russia of "not a constructive stand", the Estonian side dragging out negotiations or, in Reinart's words, upgrades their level.
