FBIS3-31914 "drlat020_m_94002" FBIS-LAT-94-020 Document Type:Daily Report 31 Jan 1994 Brazil Franco `Distressed' With Economic Plan's Results PY2801145794 Sao Paulo FOLHA DE SAO PAULO in Portuguese 26 Jan 94 Section 1 p 4 PY2801145794 Sao Paulo FOLHA DE SAO PAULO Language: Portuguese Article Type:BFN [Article by Josias de Souza and Gilberto Dimenstein] [Text] President Itamar Franco is distressed by the lack of results from the economic policies implemented by Finance Minister Fernando Henrique Cardoso [FHC]. He expressed certain disappointment during private conversations, adding that he expected more from the FHC plan. FOLHA learned that Franco said he expected an immediate, although gradual, reduction in the inflation rate, adding that he was surprised by the temporary inflation increase. According to Fipe (Economic Research Institute Foundation of the USP [University of Sao Paulo]), the inflation rate could hit 40 percent this month. Franco usually says that during the last year of his mandate every day is as long as a week. He has begun to doubt his own political strategy's chances for success because of the lack of economic results. He thought he would be able to influence his succession. He even played with the thought of a ticket with Fernando Henrique Cardoso as presidential candidate and former Minister Antonio Britto as his running mate. Franco told his closest advisers that he fears the plan will not yield the desired effects in April, when FHC would need to leave the government to run for an elected office. The president avoids opening fire against his minister. But some assistants already have began criticizing FHC openly, inclusively during cabinet meetings. The president does not oppose the criticism, giving his assistants the impression that he agrees with some of what is being said. President Franco also complains about the lack of "partnership" spirit in Congress. He thinks deputies and senators are delaying the approval of the plan's main items. So far Franco maintains the promise he made to FHC not to comment on the economy. But his patience is reaching the limit. He says he is particularly annoyed with price increases in the pharmaceutical industry, which he finds excessive, and our high interest rates.
