FBIS4-38681 "drsov106_a_94003" FBIS-SOV-94-106 Daily Report 2 Jun 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Yeltsin, Kim Yong-Sam Begin Official Talks Yeltsin, Kim Yong-Sam Begin Official Talks LD0206064794 Moscow Mayak Radio Network in Russian 0550 GMT 2 Jun 94 LD0206064794 Moscow Mayak Radio Network Russian BFN [Report by correspondent Yuliy Semenov from the Kremlin in Moscow -- live] [Excerpt] [passage omitted] Twenty minutes ago an official meeting ceremony was held for South Korean President Kim Yong-sam and his wife in the St. George Hall of the Moscow Kremlin. What can I tell you? Our guest is very dynamic and smiles a lot, but at the same time he is known as a gifted and far-sighted politician who, among other things, began to establish contacts with the Soviet Union and Russia even before official relations between Russia and South Korea were re-established. Ten minutes ago a tete-a-tete meeting between Presidents Kim Yong-sam and Yeltsin started in the so-called Green Drawing-Room. Whereas they had an unofficial meeting last night in Staro-Ogarevo, today's meeting opens a formal negotiating process. Simultaneously, the foreign ministers are holding talks at the so-called Yellow Drawing-Room. There they are expected to sign the first agreement on the protection of migratory birds, together with a protocol on the consultations between the foreign ministries. At the same time, two more agreements -- on environment protection and on preventing incidents at sea -- will be initialled. They will be signed but a subsequent approval of the presidents will be required. Then there will be talks in St. Catherine's Hall attended by the delegations in full and at about 1130 in St. Vladimir's Hall of the Kremlin, President Yeltsin is to hand over to his guest a package of documents relating to the so-called Korean war of the 1950's. These are archive documents, many of them secret, and they should help create a fuller picture of the events of the period. Then a Russian-Korean declaration will be signed. This is an extensive and serious document. I can tell you that one of its highlights is Russia's proposal that a conference on making the Korean peninsula a nuclear-free zone should be held with all interested states taking part. When this official program has been completed, Russia's president and his guest are to move to a building next door where a news conference of the Russian and Korean presidents will take place. [passage omitted]
