FBIS4-23856 "drafr117_d_94005" FBIS-AFR-94-117 Daily Report 17 Jun 1994 SOUTHERN AFRICA Mozambique Says Electoral Teams Favor Frelimo Says Electoral Teams Favor Frelimo MB1706084894 Maputo MEDIAFAX in Portuguese 17 Jun 94 p 1 MB1706084894 Maputo MEDIAFAX Portuguese BFN [Article by Carlos Mhuia] [Text] (Xai-Xai)--Afonso Dhlakama has once again accused the electoral registration teams (in Sofala, Tete, and Gaza) of favoring the government. "They bring two photographs -- one of Chissano's and another of mine -- and then say: `Those who are going to vote for Chissano step to this side, and those voting for Dhlakama step to that side.' Those who will vote for Chissano are the first to be registered." That accusation was made yesterday at an informal news conference during Renamo's [Mozambique National Resistance] Gaza provincial conference, which Dhlakama is chairing. According to Dhlakama, Renamo made a mistake by approving the section of the Electoral Law that entitles government to establish registration teams. Dhlakama said right now the struggle is "political" and not an "armed one," adding that Renamo is getting ready for the "second victory," the "first phase of which is the registration of voters." He said Renamo members should be encouraged to regard civic education "as an immediate step." He told MEDIAFAX: "We have never prevented registration and civic education teams from entering our areas. It is a government ploy to prevent people living in Renamo areas from being registered, because the government knows that they will vote for Renamo. In fact, we are forcing the government to register people under Renamo control." Dhlakama, who says he is involved in a preelectoral campaign, criticized Chissano for campaigning for Frelimo [Mozambique Liberation Front] in his capacity as head of state. Chissano has been declaring "days off so that managers and students attend his rallies; factories have been closed down." He added: "That is a violation of the Rome accord." At the Renamo conference, delegates asked for financial assistance and transportation. Renamo "is going to give them bicycles, motorcycles, and money for bus fares." No automobiles will be provided "because we lack them for every district."
