FBIS4-42373 "drweu107__a94009" FBIS-WEU-94-107-A Daily Report 3 June 1994 ANNEX Inter-European Affairs EU, Black Sea Region To Discuss Energy EU, Black Sea Region To Discuss Energy BR2705143394 Brussels RAPID Database in English 27 May 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY BR2705143394 Brussels RAPID Database English BFN [EC Document No. DOC/IP/94/442: "EU & Black Sea Region Seek Cooperation in Energy"] [Text] Mr. Marcelino Oreja, European Commissioner for energy and transport, will participate in an international conference to be held in Chalkidiki, Greece on 30 and 31 May, entitled "New Energy Realities in the Black Sea region." This conference has a view to developing cooperation in the field of energy between the EU [European Union] and the Black Sea region countries, paving the way for European Energy industry and opening up Union markets to these rapidly developing economies. It is the first time the EU and the member states of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation Organisation, (BSEC) (Albania, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bulgaria, Georgia, Greece, Moldova, Romania, Russia, Turkey, and the Ukraine) meet at ministerial level to discuss and coordinate aspects of energy policy. In addition, the Central Asian states of Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, and Uzbekistan will take part in the conference. Delegations will normally be led by ministers but in some cases by vice premiers. The delegates will be addressed by Commissioner Marcelino Oreja as well as the president of the Council of Ministers (energy) Kostantinos Simitos. The conference will focus on energy policy coordination and opportunities for cooperation in the areas of investment, trade, and transit, environment protection, security of supply and the implementation of the European energy charter. At the business level, bilateral and multilateral meetings between senior representatives from banks, industry, and energy companies have been arranged. The conference's organisers, the directorate-general for energy, led by Director General Constantinos Maniatopoulos, expect a successful outcome, including concrete projects for cooperation involving the EU, its member states and the Black Sea countries.
