FBIS3-54516 "drnes018_a_94008" FBIS-NES-94-018 Document Type:Daily Report 27 Jan 1994 ARAB AFRICA Algeria FIS Denies Plans To Participate in Conference LD2701114194 Tehran IRNA in English 1034 GMT 27 Jan 94 LD2701114194 Tehran IRNA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Athens, Jan. 27, IRNA -- The Islamic Salvation Front (FIS) has firmly denied reports saying that some FIS leaders were ready to participate in Algeria's national conference. "FIS firmly denies what has been reported that some shuyukh (Islamic leaders) may perhaps represent the front in what is called the national conference and reaffirms that this conference is doomed to failure," said a FIS press release faxed to IRNA Wednesday [26 Jan] night. The 2-day national conference ended Wednesday without reaching any decision on the political future of Algeria. The military-backed regime said the conference will convene to try to resolve the crisis. The statement in Arabic, signed by FIS' exiled spokesman in Europe, Rabah Kebir, said the contacts between the regime and the jailed shuyukh were merely "discussions" and not a "dialogue", and he accused the military-backed regime of falsifying the facts. Kebir, who lives in Germany, reiterated that FIS will not participate in any conference before all political prisoners are set free and their political freedom re-established. Most opposition parties boycotted the conference. The statement said FIS leader Shaykh Ali Belhadj, who began a hunger strike on December 4, was admitted to a military hospital in an unconscious state after 22 days. After undergoing medical treatment for five days Belhadj was transferred to the military jail in Balida. The FIS won a sweeping victory in the first-round in Algeria's first multi-party elections at the end of 1991, but the military-backed authorites scrapped the poll, banned the FIS and arrested thousands of Islamists. The regime last week released hundreds of Islamists, but FIS said amnesty was not enough to justify opening a dialogue with the regime.
