FBIS3-42198 "jptot005__l94013" JPRS-TOT-94-005-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Terrorism FOUO 2 February 1994 NEAR EAST/SOUTH ASIA EGYPT New Terrorist Organization Discovered, 148 Arrested NC2801193594 Cairo AL-AHRAM AL-MASA'I in Arabic 25 Jan 94 p 5 NC2801193594 Cairo AL-AHRAM AL-MASA'I Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN ['Ala' al-Zummar report] [Text] The security organs in al-Jizah, in coordination with the state Security Intelligence Service, launched a large-scale security campaign at 0500 yesterday. The campaign, which lasted until 0900, targeted the areas of Ka'abish, al-Thalath Tawabiq, 'Izbat 'Fakihah, Kafr al-Mansi, al-Jabal, Bulaq, and the pyramids. The security forces captured 148 suspects, including seven extremist terrorist elements, and seized a quantity of automatic and semi-automatic weapons. All the defendants were referred to the prosecution for interrogation. Major General Fahim Husayn, assistant interior minister for al-Jizah security, ordered the al-Jizah security forces to raid the terrorists' lairs in coordination with the state Security Intelligence Service. Secret information received confirmed the terrorists' intention to carry out operations targeting the police, especially during the Police Day celebrations. The security forces launched their raids at 0500 yesterday in the areas of Ka'abish and al-Thalath Taqwabiq. They arrested 88 suspects, including the seven extremist terrorists. A responsible security source said that one of these seven terrorists was involved in the recent incidents in Imbabah, Bulaq, al-Dakrur, and al-Ma'sarah. The source added that the interrogation of the group confirmed their membership in a new organization that planned to attack policemen, especially on Police Day. The AL-AHRAM AL-MASA'I correspondent learned that the raids were carried out by more than 80 officers and about 300 soldiers equipped with modern weapons and armored vehicles and supported by a number of fire engines in anticipation of any clashes with the extremist elements. The raids were carried out without any resistance from the targeted elements and not a single bullet was fired. At the same time, another group raided the areas of Kafr Tuhurmis and the villages of 'Abd-al-'Al and al-Mashabik. Some 46 suspects were arrested and the prosecution began their interrogation. A security source said that the interrogation of the terrorist group is being held in total secrecy and the release of their names will be delayed.
