FBIS3-34973 "drnes033_c_94001" FBIS-NES-94-033 Document Type:Daily Report 17 Feb 1994 ARAB AFRICA Egypt Mubarak Tells Army of Improved Relations With Israel TA1602123994 Tel Aviv YEDI'OT AHARONOT in Hebrew 16 Feb 94 pp 1, 19 TA1602123994 Tel Aviv YEDI'OT AHARONOT Language: Hebrew Article Type:BFN [Report by Cairo correspondent Smadar Peri] [Text] Speaking to a special, closed session of the senior Egyptian military command, President Husni Mubarak said: "We are now moving toward full peace and normal relations with Israel." The meeting took place at the beginning of the week. It is worth noting that the Egyptian regime relies on the military's support and President Mubarak is the supreme commander of the Egyptian Armed Forces. Emergency military law is still in effect in Egypt. Mubarak told the forum of the supreme military command that he wanted to update them on his intention to encourage Egyptian business to cooperate in full with their Israeli counterparts, to permit Egyptian nationals to visit Israel, and to permit all forms of normal relations. At the meeting, Mubarak stressed: "The era of cold peace is over -- we are moving toward full normalization." In the discussion with the senior army commanders, Mubarak brought Israel's impending natural gas deals as an example. "There is no reason," the Egyptian president said, "why Arab countries which do not have official relations with Israel (referring to Qatar) can sell it natural gas, while we have surpluses that we do not know what to do with. If we do not sell, these surpluses will be wasted." Within the framework of changing Egypt's policy toward Israel and moving from a "cold peace" to a "full peace," Mubarak met with Egyptian newspaper editors several days ago in order to explain the shift in Egypt's position. This meeting led to two editorials -- published simultaneously in AL-AHRAM and AL-'AKHBAR, Cairo's official newspapers -- about the "new honeymoon." It has been learned that Egypt is preparing to open an Egyptian academic center in Israel and an AL-AHRAM office in Tel Aviv.
