FBIS3-34021 "drnes023_m_94004" FBIS-NES-94-023 Document Type:Daily Report 3 Feb 1994 JORDAN Clinton Report to Congress on Iraq Criticized JN0202120994 Amman JORDAN TIMES in English 2 Feb 94 p 4 JN0202120994 Amman JORDAN TIMES Language: English Article Type:BFN [Editorial: "On Wrong Track Again"] [Text] U.S. President Bill Clinton has effectively closed the door on lifting or even relaxing the sanctions imposed on Baghdad when he told U.S. congress Monday [31 January] that Iraqi President Saddam Husayn is still determined to develop nuclear weapons. This assessment came in spite of President Clinton's assurance to his nation that Iraq's nuclear weapons programme is "out of business" and Baghdad's official commitment to put its entire weapons programme including its nuclear capabilities, if any, under long-term international supervision. Why then Washington still clings to its conviction that Iraq continues to covet nuclear and other mass destruction arsenal and therefore must be denied any relaxing of the punitive measures is something that goes beyond reasonable comprehension. State behaviour cannot be judged on metaphysical basis but rather on hard evidence unless of course there is no intention whatsoever to treat the Arab Gulf country differently no matter how far it goes to meet its obligations under U.N. Security Council resolutions. Since Iraq's mass destruction capabilities are for all intents and purposes "out of business," and will be monitored for as long as one can see, one fails to understand how Washington or anybody else for that matter can rightly guess the Iraqi intentions and find sinister plans in them. The White House is also wrong in apportioning blame for the suffering of the Iraqi masses as a result of the sanctions solely on the Iraqi regime. Such a view is of little relief to the greater majority of Iraqis who have not been able to find or afford to buy basic medicines and food staples for over three years now, given the fact that the regime in Baghdad is solidly entrenched and has an effective grip on power, telling the people that they have only their leadership to blame is of no practical comfort. If pressure must continue to be applied against the Iraqi regime under all circumstances there is a good case for applying it in such a way as to minimise damage to the innocent people. Such a distinction between ruler and ruled could and should be made, and ways and means to give it effect is obviously not beyond the ingenuity of the western nations which still spearhead the hostile campaign against the country. President Clinton was on stronger grounds when he called for the introduction of pluralistic democracy to the country as a condition for its full rehabilitation with the international community. Baghdad has yet to make significant movement in the direction of democracy and this is a source of alarm not only to Washington but also to the entire region, not to mention its own people. There is clearly no long-term solution to the problem in that country as long as its people are denied democracy and basic human rights. Meanwhile, however, no matter where the responsibility lies, the Iraqi people themselves must enjoy the right to feed themselves properly and find the necessary medicines to treat the sick among them.
