FBIS3-10992 "drlat051_j_94003" FBIS-LAT-94-051 Document Type:Daily Report 15 Mar 1994 Panama Perez Balladares Charges Campaign Waged Against PRD PA1503210594 Panama City LA PRENSA in Spanish 15 Mar 94 p 1a PA1503210594 Panama City LA PRENSA Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Article by Vilma E. Figueroa B.] [Text] Ernesto Perez Balladares, PRD [Democratic Revolutionary Party] presidential candidate, yesterday charged that a campaign is being waged by official parties to link his political group to acts of violence. In addition, Perez Balladares denied at a news conference that Argelis Chavez -- accused by Arnulfists of aggression -- is a PRD member. The Arnulfist Party [PA] National Directorate reiterated that its presidential candidate, Mireya Moscoso de Gruber, was attacked in Puerto Armuelles on Saturday by a woman who had a PRD flag in her hands. The PA warned it will not remain passive in light of the mounting violence aimed at it. During the PRD news conference Perez Balladares presented Chavez indicating she did not belong to his party, rather, she was registered as a member of the Christian Democratic Party (PDC), from which she had recently resigned. The presidential candidate also said that Chavez currently works with Ricardo Perez Colman, a PDC legislator, who confirmed her resignation. During the news conference, Argelis Chavez acknowledged she had a stick in her hand but it was not to attack the PA candidate, rather it was to "whack her little brother" who had strayed off. Perez Balladares charged there are political parties, which he did not identify, that are paying some individuals to carry PRD signs and to provoke incorrect actions to make the party appear violent. "We have had to carry the blame for violent actions that brought mourning to the nation; this still bothers us. Nevertheless, we have made an effort because we know that the country deserves better proposals," he underlined. Meanwhile, Fernando Arias, from the PA, said they have been the victims of the attacks and that the Puerto Armuelles case has been confirmed by at least six persons.
