FBIS4-12003 "drnes065_c_94006" FBIS-NES-94-065 Daily Report 5 Apr 1994 Egypt Syrian President Arrives for `Surprise' Summit Syrian President Arrives for `Surprise' Summit Damascus Radio Details Cairo Talks JN0504081494 Damascus Syrian Arab Republic Radio Network in Arabic 0415 GMT 5 Apr 94 JN0504081494 Damascus Syrian Arab Republic Radio Network Arabic BFN [Text] Presidents Hafiz al-Asad and Husni Mubarak yesterday convened three sessions of talks, one closed, to discuss the Middle East peace process, and the efforts being made to achieve the objective set for it. They also discussed Arab and world issues. The following message from the media team accompanying President al- Asad on his Egyptian visit: [Begin recording] Their Excellencies Presidents Hafiz al-Asad and Husni Mubarak held a closed session at 1900 Damascus time yesterday at the permanent headquarters of the Egyptian Presidency. This was followed by a plenary session attended, alongside the presidents, by Syrian Vice President 'Abd-al-Halim Khaddam, Foreign Minister Faruq al-Shar', and Dr. 'Isa Darwish, the Syrian ambassador in Cairo. The talks were also joined by Egyptian Prime Minister Dr. 'Atif Sidqi, Information Minister Safwat al-Sharif, Foreign Minister 'Amr Musa, and Dr. Mustafa 'Abd-al-'Aziz Mursi, Egypt's ambassador in Damascus. The presidents had held an expanded session upon the arrival of President al-Asad in Cairo yesterday afternoon. Syrian Vice President Khaddam, Foreign Minister al-Shar', and the Syrian ambassador in Cairo attended the talks. Egyptian Prime Minister Dr. 'Atif Sidqi, Defense Minister Marshal Muhammad Husayn Tantawi, Information Minister Safwat al-Sharif, Foreign Minister 'Amr Musa, and the Egyptian ambassador in Damascus attended the meeting. The three sessions considered the peace process and the efforts being made to promote its set objective and contacts being undertaken to advance that goal. Arab and international issues, including those related to the Nonaligned Movement, were also discussed. President Mubarak last night hosted a dinner banquet at the Egyptian Presidency for President al-Asad and his delegation, to which top Egyptian civilian and military officers were invited. President al-Asad arrived in Cairo at 1345 yesterday. The Egyptian president led the welcoming party at the airport. [end recording]
