FBIS4-16953 "drsov077_e_94003" FBIS-SOV-94-077 Daily Report 20 Apr 1994 UKRAINE International Affairs Grachev Arrives in Sevastopol, Comments on Talks Grachev Arrives in Sevastopol, Comments on Talks LD2004213094 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1921 GMT 20 Apr 94 LD2004213094 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [Report by ITAR-TASS correspondent Mikhail Shevtsov] [Text] Sevastopol 20 April TASS -- Russian Defence Minister Pavel Grachev arrived in Sevastopol on Wednesday for talks with Ukrainian officials on the fate of the Black Sea Fleet. According to an agreement signed in Moscow on 15 April, naval bases of the Black Sea Fleet of Russia and Ukraine must be separated. The naval base of one of the fleets should be in Sevastopol. "This is what will be at issue at the upcoming talks," Grachev said upon arrival at Sevastopol airport. The Russian minister expressed hope for the success of the talks, saying that he positively assessed proposals suggesting that the entire Black Sea Fleet should belong to Russia. According to Grachev, the fate of the Black Sea Fleet depends on politicians and they have had their say on the matter. Now the matter rests with the military," Grachev said. Grachev does not expect that during the talks a final resolution on the Black Sea Fleet will be adopted. Nevertheless, he pointed out that "he would be satisfied if key principles and approaches to this problem are coordinated." "We came to Ukraine in a bid to reach a fair solution of the Black Sea Fleet problem," the Russian defence minister said. Upon arrival in Sevastopol Grachev met commanders of the Black Sea Fleet. Afterwards, he will meet the city administration. On Thursday, Grachev will begin talks with the Ukrainian delegation led by Ukrainian Defence Minister Vitaliy Radetskyy. Grachev is accompanied by a plenipotentiary representative of the Russian president to the talks, Yuriy Dubinin, who told journalists at the airport that the main task of the talks is to reach the realisation of agreements reached in Moscow. According to Dubinin, all previous agreements on the solution of the Black Sea Fleet problem were not realised since lower structures "refused to comply with the president's will."
