FBIS3-2378 "drchi046_h_94003" FBIS-CHI-94-046 Document Type:Daily Report 9 Mar 1994 West Europe Minister Seeks Data on `Political Prisoners' HK0903073694 Hong Kong AFP in English 0632 GMT 9 Mar 94 HK0903073694 Hong Kong AFP Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Beijing, March 9 (AFP) -- Dutch Foreign Minister Pieter Kooijmans has asked Chinese leaders for information about 40 Chinese and Tibetan "political prisoners" during his official visit here, Dutch embassy sources said Wednesday. "No progress was made on the KLM file", the Netherlands national airline's bid to open an air link between Beijing and Amsterdam, they added. Kooijmans, who left Beijing Wednesday, had talks with Prime Minister Li Peng, Foreign Minister Qian Qichen and Justice Minister Xiao Yang. "The human rights issue was discussed more in detail with Qian Qichen," a diplomatic source said. It was during this meeting that Kooijmans submitted his list of political prisoners and asked China to "pay attention to these cases," the diplomat added. Kooijmans, a professor of international law, is a former United Nations rapporteur on human rights in China. His visit coincided with the arrests and detention of several dissidents, including democracy movement leader Wei Jingsheng, in a crackdown on opposition circles. China responded harshly Tuesday to U.S. attacks on its human rights record. "No foreign country, organisation or individual has the right to make irresponsible remarks or interfere," a Foreign Ministry spokesman said. The diplomatic sources signalled no progress on the air links dispute. KLM is banned from landing in China because it runs flights to Taiwan, China's Nationalist rival. KLM is the only European airline to operate daily flights to Taipei, and China has insisted that it suspend these flights as a condition of opening up links with Beijing. The Taipei route is one of KLM's most profitable and it is loath to abandon it because Taiwan has warned that unlike other European airlines which operate the route through subsidiaries, it will not allow a subsidiary for the Dutch company to land in Taiwan.
