FBIS4-39446 "drsov110_a_94022" FBIS-SOV-94-110 Daily Report 7 Jun 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Soskovets on Possible Arms Center in Malaysia Soskovets on Possible Arms Center in Malaysia LD0706162994 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service in Russian 1232 GMT 7 Jun 94 LD0706162994 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service Russian BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondents Stanislav Bychkov and Oleg Velichko] [Text] Kuala Lumpur, 7 Jun -- "Since Malaysia has become the first country in Southeast Asia to acquire Russian weapons, we discussed the possibility of establishing in this country a center for their further promotion in the region." This was stated to an ITAR-TASS correspondent by First Vice Premier Oleg Soskovets after his meeting today with Malaysian Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad. The Russian Government's representative is in Kuala Lumpur on an official visit, and was today present at the ceremony of signing the contract for the delivery to Malaysia of 18 Russian MiG-29 fighters. Malaysia needs new technologies, new scientific developments, and is displaying a practical interest in the sphere of telecommunications and space technology. "They are not wondering like some figures have started doing in Russia about whether to be in space or not, but they intend to get on with it," O. Soskovets said. Thus, during the conversation with the head of the Malaysian Cabinet, accord was reached "on large-scale and long-term scientific-technical cooperation and the transfer of individual Russian technologies to Malaysia." It was an "extraordinarily intensive conversation between two sides with an interest in cooperation," O. Soskovets stressed. The new Malaysian-Russian relations are "called upon to serve the two countries for a minimum of 20 years," Malaysian Defense Minister Mohamad Najib Abdul Razak stated during today's meeting. The sides discussed the prospects for cooperation in military technology as a result of signing the contract on the MiGs. The war minister called the agreement "the biggest deal with Russia," and expressed "interest" in the development and expansion of such cooperation.
