FBIS4-47529 "jpust013___94082" JPRS-UST-94-013 JPRS Science & Technology Central Eurasia 23 June 1994 LIFE SCIENCES AGRICULTURAL SCIENCE Biological Method in Tatarstan Biological Method in Tatarstan 937C0345B Moscow ZASHCHITA RASTENIY in Russian No. 5, May 93 p 5 937C0345B Moscow ZASHCHITA RASTENIY Russian CSO [Article by Editorial board] [Text] The republic's biolaboratory is involved in the production and implementation of biological facilities in the republic. The outcome of this effort speaks for itself: in 1992, biological treatment was carried out in 42 Tatarstan rayons with an area of 820,000 ha. Bactorodencide was used most frequently on open soil. The preparation was used on an area of 600,000 ha in 25 rayons, predominantly on winter cereal crops, perennial grass, and in orchards. The total area of its application in warehouse rooms and greenhouses exceeded 107,000 ha and in the private sector--7,000 ha. Rhizoplan testing was continued on cereal crop plantings over an area of 167,500 ha and on other crops in 27 rayons in the republic. The effect of the preparation on potatoes was examined by experts from the laboratory together with scientists from the Niva Scientific Technical Association. At first, they treated the tubers, then the preparation was applied to vegetating plants. The outcome was positive. The following microbiological preparations were used: lepidocide on vegetable crops and in gardens and bitoxybacillin primarily on potatoes. Curtene and belocide were tested for the first time against the Colorado beetle in the private sector. Commercial breeding of Trichogramma conducted along four lines has been set up in the republic. Large-scale production of the entomophagan is carried out between April and August. The Trichogramma is marketed to enterprises in 30 rayons where it is introduced into gardens, plantings of peas and perennial grasses and vegetable crops over a total area of 150 ha. Production of aphid lion and Encarsia is continuing for open and protected soil; it is being conducted by the Republican Laboratory and Greenhouse Integrated Productions. The assortment of biological facilities and the scope of their application are expanding every year. In addition to producing Trichodermin, Phytoseiulus, Aphidius gallcieae, and aphid lion, Cuban cycloneda and Amblyseius were also bred during the last year. A department for producing preparations against downy mildew is being equipped. The production of entomophagan at greenhouse integrated enterprises makes it possible to produce the first yield of vegetable and produce crops virtually without chemical treatment. The integrated enterprises are partially marketing their biological resources to subsidiary plots at commercial enterprises. The staff of the biolaboratory together with the experts from the enterprises are engaged in efforts to identify useful insects and preserve them in the areas near beehives as well as prepare regulation for canceling chemical treatment. Due to the considerable spread of female aphids, aphid lions, aphidius, ground beetles, tachyna flies, and other representatives of useful entomophagan in nature, such chemical treatment was canceled over an area of over 252,000 ha.
