FBIS3-20246 "drweu060_j_94011" FBIS-WEU-94-060 Document Type:Daily Report 29 Mar 1994 ITALY & VATICAN CITY Greens Chide `Coup-Like Use of TV' by Rightists BR2903142794 Rome LA REPUBBLICA in Italian 29 Mar 94 p 10 BR2903142794 Rome LA REPUBBLICA Language: Italian Article Type:BFN ["Si.Bu." report: "The Greens Accusation: TV Was Used To Stage a Coup"] [Text] Rome -- Disappointment, some amazement, a few recriminations were being voiced at the Greens headquarters. "I fully respect the people's will, but it has somehow legitimized the absolutely coup-like use of TV made by our opponent." Around 2300 hours [2100 GMT], [Greens coordinator] Carlo Ripa di Meana -- his eyes tearful, "but only because of the TV floodlights," -- arrived in the Greens National Federation headquarters, in via Catania, where he was met by a small group of activists. The first figures broadcast by TV were taken in with dismay and amazement, particularly as they placed the Greens below the fatal 4 percent threshold. "It cannot be, I cannot believe it," remarked a young girl when Meana read out the first exit-poll figures. Then silence set in, interrupted only, now and then, by a bitter comment against [National Alliance leader Gianfranco] Fini or [Democratic Christian Center member Ferdinando] Casini, who was branded as a hypocrite. Someone in a corner was expressing his concern at what might happen now to the health system, or to the laws on abortion and divorce. As they waited for the spokesperson, they nibbled some food, but nobody was very talkative. Senator Carla Rocchi arrived, and remarked: "To be frank, I did not expect us to reach the threshold. I now hope the proportional system, which triggered off the coalition rat-race, will be completely dismantled." Rocchi was also asking herself where [Pact for Italy member] Alberto Michelini's thousands of votes may have gone: "I am amazed by the fact that someone who mustered so much support is now left high and dry. I really wonder why." Then Ripa di Meana turned up. The TV cameras cornered him against a wall, but he answered the questions calmly, saying he first wanted to look at the real figures. However, he was already being told that two mistakes lay behind the progressives' defeat: having staked everything on continuity with Ciampi's government and having scrapped the environmentalists' proposal to regroup the minor parties so as to avoid being cornered in the elections. It sounded like an attack on [PDS Secretary Achille] Occhetto, on Democratic Alliance [AD], and on Rete. However, Ripa di Meana did not wish to be polemic. He thanked his allies and said he would discuss these problems with them. In the meantime, he relaunched the environmentalist campaign, a Europe-wide struggle which knows no borders. However, the Greens spokesperson pointed his finger at the use that radio and the media made by [Forza Italia leader Silvio] Berlusconi and the latter's allies. [Radical leader Marco] Pannella and "Radio Radicale" also came under attack. Rocchi said wryly: "It will be very ironical if Pannella makes it into parliament thanks to the proportional law which he systematically opposed."
