FBIS3-58363 "drweu008_q_94002" FBIS-WEU-94-008 Document Type:Daily Report 12 Jan 1994 TURKEY Clinton's Policy on Iraq, Disappointment Viewed NC1101143894 Istanbul MILLIYET in Turkish 6 Jan 94 p 15 NC1101143894 Istanbul MILLIYET Language: Turkish Article Type:BFN [Article by Nur Batur under the "Diplomacy Corridor" rubric: "Clinton's Policy on Iraq and Disappointment for Ciller"] [Text] Turkey has been unable to find a way out of the impasse in which it found itself after the Gulf war. So, Prime Minister Tansu Ciller justifiably decided to take up the file on the embargo on Iraq as soon as she came to power. Ciller may have made a mistake at first by launching a campaign to lift the embargo and by revealing that she might even cooperate with President Yeltsin on the issue. She had to retract her initiative when she visited Washington. But her starting point was right. The United States is debating the embargo on Haiti and Europe seems to have forgotten Saddam Husayn. Apart from a few UN and U.S. State Department officials who watch Iraq, everyone else seems to have forgotten the embargo. But the forgotten embargo has cost Turkey $20 billion and the figure is rising every day. Obviously, Ciller was right to discuss the loss Turkey incurred from the embargo with President Clinton in Washington, a loss that is gradually having more serious effects on the economic and social fields in Turkey. Clinton showed understanding toward Ciller's complaints at first. Disappointment for Ciller What happened later? The Turkish and U.S. delegations met to hold talks. Files were opened and the measures needed to help Turkey redeem its loss were discussed. The U.S. proposal emerged at the end of the talks: "The United States should extend credit to Turkey." Needless to say, that disappointed Ankara. Clinton hasn't moved to help Ankara reduce the embargo's heavy burden on Turkey and has even failed to agree to clearing the oil from the Ceyhan-Iskenderun pipeline, which has begun to corrode, in return for Iraq's debts to Turkey. Consequently, Ciller is looking for a new escape route. Can She Persuade Saddam? Considering Washington's approach, Ankara has moved to find a way to persuade Baghdad. That was why the under secretary of the Iraqi Ministry of Foreign Affairs was recently invited to visit Turkey for the first time since the Gulf War. Washington may have been displeased with the invitation but Ankara believes the visit is very important. The talks that are expected to take place next week can be viewed as Turkey's move to persuade Saddam Husayn. Turkey is convinced that the controlled sale of oil from the Ceyhan-Iskenderun pipeline will be helpful to Turkey and Iraq. The UN proposal that Iraq be allowed to sell oil worth $1.6 million to meet its urgent needs is not new. But Saddam Husayn is opposed to any UN control over the use of the profit Iraq will make from the sale. The UN officials insist that they control the way Iraq will use the amount it will have after Baghdad's debts to Turkey are paid and an amount is allocated to the war reparation fund. Saddam Husayn agreeing to the UN proposal without objection will be an important political and economic development for Iraq. It may be allowed to sell more of its oil if the Baghdad administration agrees to the UN formula, regardless of its sales being subject to control. That will be an important step for lifting the embargo. Resuming oil sales will prevent corrosion in the pipeline, which has cost millions of dollars. Undoubtedly, the sale is regarded as a way to help Turkey reduce the loss it has suffered during the past three years. The political implications of putting that formula into effect are equally important. Baghdad can have its sovereignty over north Iraq registered. Naturally, Baghdad's anxiety is justified. It is convinced that the Kurds may move to sabotage the pipeline when the pumping of oil is resumed. But the Turkish Government is prepared to maintain the pipeline's security. Can Ciller Persuade Saddam? In short, Turkey is not only trying to redeem the loss it has incurred because of the embargo but it is also intensifying its diplomatic initiatives aimed at obstructing the establishment of a Kurdish State in north Iraq. Can Ciller, who has not received Clinton's approval, persuade Saddam Husayn?
