FBIS3-19783 "drweu055__a94003" FBIS-WEU-94-055-A Document Type:Daily Report 22 March 1994 ANNEX Inter-European Affairs Van den Broek on EU Membership for East Europe BR1803150194 Bern ATSA/SDAA in French 1529 GMT 17 Mar 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY BR1803150194 Bern ATSA/SDAA Language: French Article Type:BFN [Article signed YR/SV: "The European Union and Eastern Countries -- Commissioner Van den Broek Advocates a Premembership Strategy"; as released by Bern ATSA/SDAA database] [Text] Brussels, 17 Mar (ATS) -- According to Commissioner Hans van den Broek, the European Union (EU) should propose a "premembership" strategy for the countries of Central and East Europe (CEEC). A multilateral political and economic context, which would be a "real forerunner to membership," should be established with those countries. The accession of CEEC's to the EU will be facilitated by applying the bilateral association agreements that have been signed so far to each of them, Mr. van den Broek said. The commissioner, who addressed the Free University of Brussels, pleaded in favor of a "multilateral relation between the EU and the CEEC's which would eliminate the problems in trade exchanges and create a market big enough to attract investors." A multilateral solution of that kind would be the best means to help CEEC countries meet the membership criteria settled at the European Council of Copenhagen in June 1993, he added. Criteria for Membership The criteria have been extensively defined: a state ruled by law; institutional stability that guarantees democracy, respect for human rights, protection of minorities; ability to cope with the market trends within the Union. But the enlargement to the east will also depend on the Union's ability to include new members, particularly with respect to the working mechanism of the Union. A date for opening negotiations cannot be settled at this point as two many uncertainties still remain on both sides. Mr. van den Broek thinks that 1997 should be an appropriate time to assess how the CEEC's are progressing toward membership and to decide what the next steps should be. Poland, Hungary, Romania, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, and Bulgaria each have signed an association agreement or a European agreement with the Twelve. Negotiations will soon start with Slovenia and later with the Baltic states. Political Dialogue Those agreements allow for the establishment of a political dialogue. The Twelve have suggested that the CEEC's adopt a multilateral approach for enforcing them. However, several CEEC countries want to retain the possibility of a bilateral dialogue with the EU so as to break free from the others. Hungary has announced that it intends to apply for EU membership in April. Other CEEC countries could follow. Mr. van den Broek made a statement aimed at those countries, saying that the order in which the applications would be introduced would not influence the order in which they would be accepted.
