FBIS4-65253 "drweu094cc_94001" FBIS-WEU-94-094 Daily Report 13 May 1994 INTER-EUROPEAN AFFAIRS Dehaene, Lubbers Candidates for EC Presidency Dehaene, Lubbers Candidates for EC Presidency BR1305144594 Brussels LA LIBRE BELGIQUE in French 13 May 94 p 1 BR1305144594 Brussels LA LIBRE BELGIQUE French BFN [Guy Daloze report: "Europe: A Dehaene-Lubbers Duel"] [Text] If they do not have the same silhouette, then at least they have the same political profile. They are both Christian Democrats, both leaders of a small European Union [EU] country, and both prime ministers (incoming or outgoing). In addition, the European Community headhunters are definitely at a loss six weeks before the Corfu Summit on 24 and 25 June, at which the name of the future president of the European Commission will be made known -- unless it is postponed. British Veto So, will it be the Belgian Dehaene, or the Netherlander Lubbers? A reliable source has confirmed that the current occupant of 16 rue de la Loi [Belgian prime minister's office] is unofficially the official candidate of the French and Germans, who saluted his performance as a "problem solver" during the Belgian presidency and see in him a voluntarist and pragmatic leader for the Europe of tomorrow. However, there is a hitch: Jean-Luc Dehaene, the European federalist, is running up against the British veto. In London they would be happy with a last-ditch stand in favor of Sir Leon Brittan, but there is already discreet support for Mr. Lubbers in political circles. Mr. Major greatly appreciated the support of the Netherlands outgoing prime minister, who is just as much a free- trader as himself, during the Netherlands EU presidency and the Maastricht Treaty. Back To The Belgians The confrontation will also have to take national contingencies into account. Ruud Lubbers has officially announced his candidacy and is available since the Netherlands voters showed him the way out two weeks ago. As for Jean-Luc Dehaene, he is keeping his silence and having a lot more trouble freeing himself from his national career. He knows that he is the federalizing cement in the government. Moreover, his partners, while they do not want to deprive him of a prestigious European career, are nevertheless drawing his attention -- especially in the CVP [Flemish People's Party] and the PS [Flemish Socialist Party] -- to the risks which his departure could have for the coalition, if not the country. As a result, Wilfried Martens said his former chief of staff's accession to the EU presidency would be "problematic." The same discreet contacts between social christians and socialists these past few weeks have, however, confirmed the common desire to go all the way to the end of the legislative session (end of 1995), and to do so even if the "affairs" [reference to scandals involving the SP] lead to new disturbances. So, the search is on for a successor to Jean-Luc Dehaene -- just in case. Melchior Wathelet does not much feel like being used as a repair patch and Leo Delcroix cannot command unanimity within his own party. Under these conditions, Herman van Rompuy [budget minister] would be the most likely candidate, although he does not generate a great deal of enthusiasm. Account must also be taken of Karel van Miert, the current Belgian European commissioner, who was promised the post during the government negotiations in 1992 and who will have to find a landing place: either in the Belgian Government (as deputy prime minister) or at the head of an SP which is ready to recover!
