FBIS4-36546 "drnes112_a_94007" FBIS-NES-94-112 Daily Report 9 Jun 1994 ARAB AFRICA Algeria Foreign Minister Receives Malaysian Counterpart Foreign Minister Receives Malaysian Counterpart BK0906132294 Kuala Lumpur BERNAMA in English 0856 GMT 9 Jun 94 BK0906132294 Kuala Lumpur BERNAMA English BFN [Text] Kuala Lumpur, June 9 (OANA-BERNAMA) -- Algeria has requested Malaysia's help to present its proposal for the establishment of ties between the Maghreb Union and ASEAN. Algeria, this year's chairman of the Maghreb Union, made the request at a meeting between its foreign minister, Mohamed Salah Dembri and his Malaysian counterpart Abdullah Ahmad Badawi during the latter's four-day visit from June 5 to the country. Senior officials of both countries were also present during the meeting. A statement issued by the Malaysian Foreign Ministry Thursday [9 June], said Abdullah had promised to present Algeria's proposal at the annual meeting of ASEAN's foreign ministers in Bangkok next month. He believed that there would be no objection to the proposal since ASEAN had established ties with several regional groupings such as the Gulf Cooperation Council, Rio Group and European Union. Hopefully a meeting between ASEAN and the Maghreb Union could be held during this year's session of the United Nations (UN) General Assembly, the statement said. During the visit, Abdullah also called on Algerian President General Lamine Zeroual, and held discussions with Prime Minister Mokdad Sifi. During the bilateral discussions, both foreign ministers also felt that closer ties between Algeria and Malaysia could further strengthen the South-South cooperation particularly within the framework of Group-15. Both countries also agreed on exchange of experience in economic development, training, technical cooperation, trade, investment, education and culture. Being Islamic countries emphasising on development for the people, Malaysia and Algeria agree on exchange of ideas between their Islamic intellectuals on Islam and development, the statement said. On enhancing economic cooperation, Malaysia and Algeria had agreed to look into and sign several agreements including those on economic, scientific and technical cooperation, investment protection and assurance, and waving of visa's requirement.
