FBIS3-33792 "drnes021_k_94001" FBIS-NES-94-021 Document Type:Daily Report 1 Feb 1994 IRAQ Saudi, Kuwaiti Intelligence Said To Recruit UN Inspectors NC3101173394 Beirut AL-SAFIR in Arabic 27 Jan 94 p 10 NC3101173394 Beirut AL-SAFIR Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Report by 'Amr Nasif in Cairo] [Excerpt] An Arab political source in Cairo, who has asked to remain anonymous, has told AL-SAFIR that Saudi Arabia and Kuwait have recruited a large number of UN inspectors in Iraq to work for their intelligence services. The source said they have attracted key figures of the UN Special Commission supervising the removal of Iraq's mass destruction weapons. The source emphasized that UN Secretary General Butrus Butrus-Ghali has asked his top aides to conduct a secret inquiry into alleged cooperation between UN experts and "Gulf security agencies" and whether the experts have really informed those agencies of the correct details of their inspections and of the nature of Iraq's military and armament programs. Early this month, the source said, Saudi Arabia paid "checks" worth $71 million to the UN Special Commission under the pretext of covering the expenses of the UN inspection teams in Iraq. The source added that Saudi Arabia will offer another $50 million for the same purpose. The source said that Saudi Arabia exploited the international organization's bad finances and its failure to provide the necessary cash to cover the wages and expenses of inspectors to realize its political objectives in a way that makes the experts feel indebted to Saudi Arabia. This is in addition to personal bribes. The source said that Saudi Arabia and Kuwait recruited several experts to work on their behalf. The experts, the source added, are reporting to Saudi and Kuwaiti intelligence on their mission. The source added: The recruitment was made in coordination with the CIA's regional station in the Gulf. This station enjoys high-level relations with Saudi and Kuwaiti intelligence through Rolf Ekeus, head of the UN Special Commission, who is also a CIA officer. [passage omitted]
