FBIS3-3105 "drchi052_a_94007" FBIS-CHI-94-052 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Mar 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS General UN To Aid Primary Education in Poverty-Stricken Areas OW1403031994 Beijing XINHUA in English 0241 GMT 14 Mar 94 OW1403031994 Beijing XINHUA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Beijing, March 14 (XINHUA) -- China and the United Nations (U.N.) are considering focusing their educational co-operation on helping China's primary education in poverty-stricken areas. This was revealed here today by China's State Education Commission (SEC). "Such a shift of focus in the next couple of years will be conducive for China to reach its goal of spreading nine-year compulsory education for all the children in the country by the year 2000," an SEC spokesman said. He said the U.N. Children's Fund, Population Fund, Development Program and other U.N. organizations have in the past ten years provided China with free aid totalling 64 million U.S. dollars for ten educational projects. At the same time, the Chinese Government put in five times this amount for these projects, he said. The co-operation projects cover fundamental education, normal education, higher education, textbook compilation and population research, the official said, adding that every city and province in the Chinese mainland is involved in such projects. The SEC spokesman said that advanced electronic devices have been deployed in the projects to train teachers for the poverty-stricken countryside. Through training the principals of 1,000 primary schools in poor areas, their management personnel and some of the parents, 95 percent of the eligible children in these areas have been enabled to go to school, he said. Other aid projects include training centers for university management personnel, heads of primary and high schools and primary and secondary school teachers, he said. Educators have been sent to other countries through such projects to receive training or attend academic conferences. "China's educational exchanges with world bodies and other countries have thus been further promoted," the SEC spokesman said.
