FBIS3-38676 "drweu025_h_94012" FBIS-WEU-94-025 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Feb 1994 GERMANY Intelligence Service To Receive More Tasks AU0402151194 Frankfurt/Main FRANKFURTER RUNDSCHAU in German 4 Feb 94 p 4 AU0402151194 Frankfurt/Main FRANKFURTER RUNDSCHAU Language: German Article Type:BFN [Report by Ferdos Forudastan: "The Federal Intelligence Service Will Be Granted More Rights"] [Text] Bonn, 3 February -- In the future, the Federal Intelligence Service (BND) will not only be responsible for intelligence activities, but will also assume tasks in the fight against crime as well. The Christian Democratic Union/Christian Social Union and Free Democratic Party of Germany [FDP] adopted corresponding legal regulations on Thursday [3 February]. Thus, they finally settled differences of opinion on the planned "Law on the Fight Against Crime 94," which will probably be discussed for the first time by the Bundestag on 24 February. The BND should be allowed to pass on findings on weapons and drug deals, money laundering, counterfeiting of money, and terrorism, obtained accidentally or on purpose, to the police or public prosecutor's offices. According to the current regulations, the intelligence services are allowed to tap telephone conversations abroad only if the "free and democratic order" of the FRG or its security are in peril. The coalition has suggested that the satellites and other monitoring equipment of the BND should also be used to register conversations on a regular basis that include information pointing to serious crimes. The BND should also be allowed to eavesdrop on persons if prosecution authorities ask for administrative assistance in the event of telephone tapping upon judicial order. FDP legal expert Burkhard Hirsch and Detlef Kleinert pointed out that the coalition's intention is not to expand the tasks of the intelligence service. It only wants to "utilize the technical possibilities of the BND," Hirsch stressed. He also rejected the allegation that the new law is mixing the tasks of the secret services and the police. The BND should merely "place its equipment at the disposal of the police and provide administrative aid." The draft law also stipulates that offenders who are caught red-handed should appear in court within one week in the future and be kept in prison until that time. Violent crimes should be punished more severely.
