FBIS3-45240 "drchi010_k_94003" FBIS-CHI-94-010 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Jan 1994 NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political & Social PRC Interpol Chief Meets Hong Kong Police HK1401002494 Hong Kong WEN WEI PO in Chinese 13 Jan 94 p A12 HK1401002494 Hong Kong WEN WEI PO Language: Chinese Article Type:BFN [By staff reporter Li Szu-hua (2621 1835 5478): "Zhu Entao Says China Will Resolutely Crack Down on Triads But Welcomes Those Who Mend Their Ways"] [Text] Beijing, 12 Jan (WEN WEI PO)--When meeting the visiting delegation from the Royal Hong Kong Police Local Inspectors' Association in Beijing today, Zhu Entao, director of China's National Central Bureau of Interpol, reiterated that the Chinese Government takes a resolute stance in cracking down on underworld crime. However, the Chinese Government also welcomes those underworld elements who have turned over a new leaf with actual good conduct. Zhu Entao also told the association that the Chinese Government will not under any circumstances send public security police to work in the police force of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region [SAR] or recruit personnel from the mainland after 1997. At the meeting, Zhu exchanged views with the visiting group on police affairs in Hong Kong and the mainland. Touching on the underworld problem, Zhu reiterated that it is the Chinese Government's consistent stand to strike resolutely at underworld crimes and to prevent underworld elements from developing their organizations on the mainland. They will be resolutely banned the moment they are unearthed. If underworld elements from Hong Kong commit crimes on the mainland, they will certainly be handled according to the law. It is absolutely impossible for them to seek refuge on the mainland after committing crimes in Hong Kong. Meanwhile, Zhu Entao said that if they have corrected their conduct with good concrete performances, the Chinese Government definitely welcomes them. As to the recent cooperation between the two sides regarding the crackdown on crimes, such as the yachts stolen in Hong Kong, Zhu said the mainland side has paid close attention to the problem and is now studying countermeasures for that. In addition, Zhu Entao also explained to the association that the Hong Kong Police will still be accountable to the SAR government after 1997. If there is a police manpower shortage, this is also an affair for the SAR government and the police commissioner. The Chinese Government will under no circumstances send public security personnel or recruit policemen to work in Hong Kong. He maintained that this is a major Chinese Government principle to realize Hong Kong being ruled by the Hong Kong people.
