FBIS4-35175 "drlat126_c_94003" FBIS-LAT-94-126 Daily Report 27 Jun 1994 MEXICO Small Chiapas Landowners Threaten To Evict Indians Small Chiapas Landowners Threaten To Evict Indians PA3006013394 Monterrey EL NORTE (Foreign Edition) in Spanish 27 Jun 94 p 14A PA3006013394 Monterrey EL NORTE (Foreign Edition) Spanish BFN [Report by Daniel Pensamiento] [Text] Tuxtla Gutierrez -- After agreeing to the immediate sale of 44,000 hectares of land in the conflict zone, small landowners and cattlemen have given authorities eight days to evict Indian and peasant groups from approximately 400 tracts of property; otherwise, they will begin the evictions themselves. During a meeting, the small landowners rejected the government's proposal to begin the evictions on 31 August at the conclusion of the negotiations on the sale of the land and the relocation of the groups. Rodolfo Ulloa, secretary general of the state government in Chiapas, said the state administration is willing to carry out the evictions but that dialogue and consensus must prevail in order not to hinder the peace negotiations. "We are willing to undertake the actions you demand, but we must contribute to reaching peace agreements," he said. Francisco Escudero, a representative of small landowners in the Soconusco area, warned that the region's producers will begin to recover the land if the government continues to be indifferent to the eviction of the Indian and peasant groups. Escudero said: "We can no longer tolerate this. We are sorry the government is closing the door on us. How can the government wait until 31 August to begin the evictions?" He added: "We cannot accept this. This is why we made it very clear that if by 4 July there is no reply, we will begin to evict people from our farms, and the government will be responsible for what happens." The small landowners have been picketing the Government Palace, and their trucks and tractors have been blocking the city's main square for the past 72 hours to demand the evictions.
