FBIS4-6672 "dreas077__a94013" FBIS-EAS-94-077-A Daily Report 19 Apr 1994 ANNEX Japan Academic Discusses Trade Surplus Issue Academic Discusses Trade Surplus Issue OW2104003594 Tokyo ASAHI SHIMBUN in Japanese 19 Apr 94 Morning Edition p 11--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY OW2104003594 Tokyo ASAHI SHIMBUN Japanese BFN [Summary of remarks by Aoyama Gakuin University Professor Ryutaro Komiya from an interview with unidentified ASAHI SHIMBUN correspondent; place and date not given] [Text] It is incorrect to regard the trade surplus as "profits." U.S. deficits do not also mean that the United States is suffering losses. Surplus countries provide "goods" to deficit countries in exchange for "funds." Trade surpluses and deficits have nothing to do with profits and losses because surplus countries do not take away funds without providing goods. The surpluses earned in Japan are invested in foreign countries. Some of them are invested directly in building factories, and others in bonds, such as U.S. Government bonds. Wherever they are invested, they are put to good use. Some people say that domestic investment should be increased rather than making use of foreign investment. However, their opinion does not touch on the essence of this issue. Private companies are supposed to invest in projects which are more profitable. Their business operations should not be manipulated artificially. With regard to public investment, the cost of building subways should be borne by those who will benefit from them. It is improper to increase the burden of government spending. In any case, regardless of the size of the surplus, the government should judge the proper scale of public investment. It is important to lower import barriers and to improve the transparency of the various systems and policies. However, these measures will not be effective in reducing the surplus. Even if the volume of specific imports, such as cars, is increased, the surplus reduction effect will be offset by the foreign exchange rate moving toward the depreciation of the yen. It is beneficial for the people for good and cheap products to be imported from foreign countries. Therefore, regardless of the surplus, steady efforts should be made in dealing with this task. A substantial portion of the current surplus has resulted from the sluggish economic situation. I think there are still several financial measures to be implemented, including lowering the official discount rate. However, with regard to fiscal policies, any further economic stimulation may, on the contrary, destabilize the economy.
