FBIS3-13235 "drnes048dd_94010" FBIS-NES-94-048 Document Type:Daily Report 11 Mar 1994 Palestinian Affairs Fatah's Zaki: Hawks Ordered To Avenge Massacre JN1003163794 Amman AL-DUSTUR in Arabic 10 Mar 94 pp 32, 26 JN1003163794 Amman AL-DUSTUR Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [By Tawfiq 'Abid] [Excerpts] Amman--'Abbas Zaki, Fatah Central Committee member, has again held Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhaq Rabin fully responsible for the Ibrahimi Mosque massacre. He said the massacre is part of a larger Israeli scheme to empty Hebron and Jerusalem of Palestinian citizens to prepare for the implementation of the old Zionist idea of a land without people for a people without a land. In a seminar organized by the Dialogue and Thought Club at Philadelphia University at noon yesterday, Zaki said that because they are unsatisfied with the official Palestinian and Arab recognition of their entity, the Israelis now want religious recognition. Hence, he said, other massacres should be expected in the occupied territories in order to move the battle from the political to the religious arena. [passage omitted] Responding to a question, 'Abbas Zaki said he supports negotiations, but believes they should not be the only approach, since other methods must be supported. He explained that the Vietnamese and Algerian revolutions were negotiating and fighting at the same time. Zaki said: The massacre will not go unpunished. Instructions have been issued to the Fatah Hawks. However, these instructions have not been implemented yet because of the Israeli maximum state of alert in anticipation of a painful Palestinian response. Complaining about the weak coordination among the joint commands in the occupied territories, Zaki said Fatah has made no decision to end the armed struggle against the occupation. He complained that the Palestinian factions are vying among themselves for positions in unions or professional federations in the West Bank and Gaza strip, but fail to vie to confront the Israeli occupation. He said competition for positions has exposed many militants. He said Fatah means martyrdom, pride in martyrs, and the inevitability of the masses' victory. [passage omitted]
