FBIS3-26645 "drchi028_k_94018" FBIS-CHI-94-028 Document Type:Daily Report 10 Feb 1994 NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political & Social Anhui Officials Attend Public Security Meeting OW0702193794 Hefei ANHUI RIBAO in Chinese 26 Jan 93 p 1 OW0702193794 Hefei ANHUI RIBAO Language: Chinese Article Type:BFN [By reporter Liu Yaqun (0491 0068 5028): "Provincial Meeting on Public Security Work Stresses the Importance of Maintaining Social Stability and Safeguarding Economic Development"] [Excerpts] The main topic of the provincial meeting on public security work which ended on 23 January was how to bring into full play the dictatorship function and role of public security organs in maintaining social stability and safeguarding economic development. Yang Yongliang, Wang Yang, Lu Shengdao, and Wang Sheyun spoke at the meeting. Our province achieved marked results in public security work in 1993. The struggle of cracking down on crimes continues to develop. The number of criminal cases resolved increased by a great margin over the number in 1992. Public security and prevention work have obviously been strengthened. We have achieved step by step results in the anticorruption struggle. The overall quality of police and cadres has been enhanced. [passages omitted] In his speech at the meeting, Deputy Secretary Yang Youngliang pointed out: Public Security organs at all levels should place the work of maintaining political stability and social security high on the agenda. It is necessary to unswervingly adhere to the principle of cracking down on criminal activities in accordance with the law and deal with them quickly and severely. More efforts should be made to strengthen the building of the public security contingent so as to meet the needs of the situation as it develops. He urged party committees and governments at all levels to conscientiously strengthen and improve their leadership over public security work and create good conditions for public security organs to enforce the law. In this way, public security organs will be able to better play their important role. Wang Yang, provincial CPC committee standing member and vice governor, also spoke at the meeting.
