FBIS3-40661 "jpnea005___94045" JPRS-NEA-94-005 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Near East & South Asia INDIA: Press Reaction to GATT Signing INDIA 2 February 1994 SOUTHERN REGION Opposition Demands Rao's Resignation on Signing GATT 94AS0121C Madras INDIAN EXPRESS in English 17 Dec 93 p 1 94AS0121C Madras INDIAN EXPRESS Language: English Article Type:CSO [Unattributed article: "Rao Told To Quit for Endorsing GATT Accord"] [Text] New Delhi -- An agitated Opposition on Thursday brought the proceedings in both Houses of Parliament to a halt and demanded Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha Rao's resignation for `compromising' the national interest by endorsing a `highly discriminatory' GATT [General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade] agreement. Both Houses were drowned in the din and not much business could be transacted as a vociferous Opposition demanded that the Prime Minister himself clarify the Government's stand on the `inequitious' Dunkel proposals incorporated in the GATT. After a series of adjournments both the Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha were adjourned for the day. As soon as the Lok Sabha met members of the National Front-Left Front combine rushed into the well called for the resignation of Rao for `succumbing' to the US pressure in accepting the GATT terms. They demanded suspension of the question hour and the Prime Minister's presence in the House to clarify the Government's position on the Dunkel proposals. "No PM no House, Prime Minister hazir ho hazir ho" -- they kept chanting in support of their demand for a statement from Rao. In the Rajya Sabha similar sentiments were echoed with the NF-LF members accusing the Government of "selling out" the country. "The telephone call came from Washington" -- Jiban Roy (CPI-M) [Communist Party of India-Marxist] kept shouting pointing to the Congress benches. However, in the morning Deputy Chairperson Najma Heptulla had succeeded in persuading the members to wait for Commerce Minister Pranab Mukherjee's statement on the conclusion of the GATT agreement at Geneva on Wednesday. The question hour, therefore, passed off without disturbances. But in the Lok Sabha the Chair had to order the first adjournment within half-an-hour. As soon as the House met, the Opposition members began shouting, "Down with the US, Narasimha Rao istifa do." Somnath Chatterjee (CPI-M) alleged that even when Parliament was agitated over the consequences of the GATT agreement, the Indian Indian representatives participating in the negotiations in Geneva had welcomed it. The sole BJP [Bharatiya Janata Party] member in the Lok Sabha, Jaswant Singh, was also on his feet joining the other NF-LF block in repudiating the Government stand on the issue. However, the party continued its boycott of the Rajya Sabha. When the Upper House met again in the afternoon, the Opposition members trooped into the well demanding the Prime Minister's presence. Pranab Mukherjee, who stood up to read out his statement, was interrupted by the slogan-shouting members. "We are not listening to your speech," Jaipal Reddy (JD) [Janata Dal] told the Commerce Minister. The Minister's voice was lost in the melee. With the NF-LF members shouting slogans from the well, Deputy Chairperson Najma Heptulla irretedly remarked, "Looks like you are standing on the roadside." Unable to pacify the members she adjourned the Rajya Sabha for the day. In the Lok Sabha while the Opposition allowed Mukherjee to read out the prepared statement, they were opposed to initiating the debate in the absence of the Prime Minister. Mukherjee who was finally allowed to make a statement presented the treaty on the GATT signed by Indian in Geneva as a fait accompli for the country. "On the whole it is our considered judgment that India has more to benefit from the expansion of world trade through the Uruguay Round Agreement rather than pursuing any alternative course of action," the Commerce Minister Pranab Mukherjee told the Parliament in a statement. He sought to ally the Opposition fears in the areas of subsidy, the public distribution system and patented drugs.
