FBIS3-2650 "drchi048_b_94006" FBIS-CHI-94-048 Document Type:Daily Report 11 Mar 1994 United States & Canada Canadian Official Clarifies Stand on Seal Product Exports OW1003073694 Beijing XINHUA in English 0651 GMT 10 Mar 94 OW1003073694 Beijing XINHUA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Beijing, March 10 (XINHUA) -- Ercel J. Baker, Canadian assistant deputy minister of fisheries, has written to Chinese Ambassador to Canada Zhang Yijun making clear the Canadian Government stand on the export of seal products to China. Recently, an international animal rights organization accused China's Shanghai Fisheries General Corporation of violating the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) by importing 50,000 dead seals from Canada's Newfoundland and Labrador Province to make aphrodisiacs out of sex organs severed from male seals. Some Western countries' newspapers gave this accusation a lot of coverage. Some congressmen of a certain country even proposed a bill to attack China on the issue. Baker said in the letter: "I am writing to express the support of the Government of Canada, and to seek the support of your government for the joint venture between Terra Nova Fishery Co. Ltd. (TNF) and the Shanghai Fisheries General Corporation (SFGC) to produce seal products for export to China. The government of the province of Newfoundland and Labrador also strongly supports the project. "We share the concern of your government regarding the unfounded allegations that seals will harvested for the sole purpose of using the male sex organs to make sexual stimulants. "It has been common practice for the more extreme groups (campaigning against seal hunting) to make sensational allegations to stir up controversy and attract media attention." The letter pointed out that the proposed venture is fully consistent with Canada's commitment to the conservation and rational management of marine resources based on the principle of sustainable development. There is a long-established commercial seal hunt in Canada which is closely regulated, the letter said. Canada encourages full use of harvested seals and would oppose any project to kill seals only for a small part of the animal, the letter went on. The joint venture involves the harvesting and use of the whole seal, the letter noted. It conforms to the licensing requirements and regulations of the Governments of Canada and the Province of Newfoundland and Labrador. Equally, it is fully in accord with international conservation requirements. Baker emphasized that the harp seal is not regulated by the convention because it is not endangered or threatened, and therefore no CITES permit would be required for export of harp seal products from Canada. At the end of the letter, Baker said he hoped that the Chinese Government would consider this project favorably and approve the joint venture.
