FBIS4-67372 "jpten011___94034" JPRS-TEN-94-011 JPRS Environmental Issues 8 April 1994 CENTRAL EURASIA RUSSIA Controversy Over Plans to Bury Hungarian Nuclear Waste Controversy Over Plans to Bury Hungarian Nuclear Waste LD0804202394 Moscow Radiostantsiya Ekho Moskvy in Russian 1500 GMT 8 Apr 94 LD0804202394 Moscow Radiostantsiya Ekho Moskvy Russian BFN [Text] Announcer: The Chelyabinsk Oblast Administration has agreed to store radioactive waste from Hungarian atomic power stations. As our correspondent reports, the population has not been informed of this. It should be added that the relevant protocol on waste storage was signed last Saturday in Budapest by Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin. Presidential Press Secretary Vyacheslav Kostikov laid out the position of the president at a briefing today. [begin recording] Kostikov: We are talking about the processing and utilization of waste from those atomic stations that were built according to Russian or Soviet, as they were then, designs with participation of Russian technology. The agreements signed back then obliged Russia to process, export to its territory, and store waste products. [end recording] Announcer: In the meantime, Aleksandr Shuvalov, the head of the press service of Russia's Ministry of Environmental Protection and Natural Resources, has the following to say: [Begin recording] Shuvalov: References to the existing practice of accepting and storing exhausted nuclear fuel from the Czech Republic, Bulgaria, and Finland will not work in the given case. The agreement between the governments of the USSR and the People's Republic of Hungary of 22 December 1966 did not provide for importing nuclear fuel. The agreement left out this point and now attempts are being made to repair the omission. Decisions of this sort are making the already serious radio-ecological [radioekologicheskaya] situation in our country even worse and opens the door to a flow of other waste materials that are no less harmful for the environment. [end recording]
