FBIS3-36225 "drsov023_c_94001" FBIS-SOV-94-023 Document Type:Daily Report 3 Feb 1994 Federal Assembly Senators Protest Chernomyrdin Absence From Assembly LD0302122994 Moscow Radio Rossii Network in Russian 1100 GMT 3 Feb 94 LD0302122994 Moscow Radio Rossii Network Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Report by correspondent Yelena Kuznetsova from the Federation Council] [Text] The prime minister's speech was expected. When it turned out that Viktor Chernomyrdin was chairing the presidium session, the work of deputies nearly reached an impasse and was almost reduced to a discussion about the place of the Federation Council in the political and power structure. Senators regarded the fact that the prime minister was busy as a political step aimed at diminishing the role of the upper chamber. It was the first time that claims were made to Vladimir Shumeyko, who, in the opinion of people's electors, did not ensure that the head of the government was present and thus, I quote, behaved dishonorably. Work returned to normal when Economics Minister Aleksandr Shokhin appeared on the rostrum and gave a forecast on the social and economic development in 1994. Its main theses are: -- to conduct a moderately tough financial policy, which would allow the inflation rate to drop to 20 percent -- in January it was higher due to the political situation. Figures of 7 to 9 percent are being expected by the end of this year; -- to make the financial and tax policy tougher; -- to ease restrictions on exports and to render support to the country's own manufacturers. The economics minister agreed to the criticism that insufficient attention is being paid to the social policy. He assured those present that effective measures will be adopted in the near future. This was not the last meeting with the government on Thursdays because, as a result of a name-vote held for the first time, a decision was adopted to wait for the prime minister's appearance, and to hear his report at any time. Thus, it was said that the government leadership should take note of the opinion of the upper chamber that will be giving recommendations regarding amendments to the economic policy.
