FBIS3-21504 "jptac003___94007" JPRS-TAC-94-003 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Arms Control 7 March 1994 EAST EUROPE REGIONAL AFFAIRS Officer Views Serb Use of Russian-Built `Aerosol Missiles' AU2302132994 Ljubljana OSLOBODJENJE (European Edition) in Serbo-Croatian 18-25 Feb 94 p 5 AU2302132994 Ljubljana OSLOBODJENJE (European Edition) Language: Serbo-Croatian Article Type:BFN [Article by Arif Pasalic, Brigadier-General of the Army of the Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina: "Aerosol Carries Death"] [Text] The aggressor has several times, through its official representatives, announced the use of a new weapon that was supposed to speed up the achievement of the set military goal of the war. These announcements (the aim of which was to frighten) have practically been actualized already. The enemy started using the new weapon late last month. It is an aerosol-type missile. The remains of such missiles were found above the village of Buca Potok. The analysis of the position of the missile parts, the location of the strike, in the ballistic sense, has shown that the missile was fired from Krivoglavci. Considering that this is a new weapon in this war, we are obliged to provide the public with specific information on what kind of weapon is in question. Aerosol explosives were first mentioned in literature as early as in 1960, and from 1966 there were practical applications of aerosol explosives in the form of bombs dropped from planes and helicopters. The term "aerosol" means a heterogeneous mixture of air and solid or liquid particles. An aerosol explosive, in fact a mixture of volatile hydrocarbons (ethylene-oxide and propylene-oxide), and aluminum nitrate -- aluminum powder -- is already used in practice. Soaps are used as cohesion material. As opposed to classical solid explosives, the aerosol explosive has greater energy, chemical reactions occur more easily during the explosion process, the shock wave speed is greater, it has a lower level of super-pressure, and it has a longer-lasting effect. These explosion characteristics allow for a greater destructive potential. During the explosion, the aerosol explosion cloud enters every gap (above the shelter, below the shelter, trees, and the shelter areas), and then explodes, the explosion being powerful and long -- the wave is most frequently lethal. The shock wave destroys lungs, pierces eardrums and other organs, and the air bubbles often enter the circulatory system (stopping in the heart or brain), which causes a quick death. The shock wave of the explosion of a 200-kg aerosol warhead causes death within a 60-meter diameter. This kind of weapon is known to be possessed by the United States (who used it in the Vietnam war), Russia, France, and Israel, and it is very likely that China has also produced them. The former JNA [Yugoslav National Army] was interested in acquiring and producing this kind of weapon, but, despite research conducted in the institutes (Vinca), it was not possible to fully master the technology and production. Considering the most abusive way of using such explosives, in air bombs and missiles (the "FRY" has had difficulties with the production of missile fuel), it may be concluded that the weapons used did not originate, nor were they produced, on the territory of the "FRY." To launch an aerosol-type warhead, the Serb-Chetnik aggressor forces use the Grad missile system (produced in Russia -- the Soviet Union). The analysis of the remains of the missile showed that it had been produced very recently in the factories and institutes of Russia, which indicates a specific breaking of the embargo by the "FRY" and Russia. So far, some 10 such missiles have been used on the frontlines in the Republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina. Judging from an analysis of past use of this weapon by the Chetnik aggressors, it is likely that they will continue to use the Grad missiles with aerosol warheads, and write primitive messages on them, as is characteristic of them, and typical of their senses and their fascist ideology ("We will fuck your mothers, you Turks").
