FBIS3-14182 "drnes057_m_94003" FBIS-NES-94-057 Document Type:Daily Report 23 Mar 1994 JORDAN Deputies Assail `Arrogant' U.S. Tactics PM2303130094 London AL-HAYAH in Arabic 23 Mar 94 p 6 PM2303130094 London AL-HAYAH Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Report by Ayman al-Safadi: "Jordanian House of Representatives Condemns U.S. Navy's Uncivilized Methods in Gulf of Aqaba"] [Excerpt] Amman -- The Jordanian House of Representatives yesterday vehemently attacked the United States, condemning the "uncivilized measures and methods" practiced by the U.S. Navy in the Gulf of Aqaba as part of the U.S. pressures exerted on Jordan. The House decided to issue a statement condemning what one deputy termed "a serious precedent which is an extension of U.S. arrogance toward the Arab nation." 'Ali Abu-al-Raghib, a center deputy, described U.S. measures in the Gulf of Aqaba as "an arrogant and uncivilized method which brings to mind the cowboy method which developed into the destroyers policy." In a statement delivered on behalf of 20 deputies in the House's final meeting in its first ordinary session, Abu-al-Raghib said that the U.S. Navy "is -- with no justification -- sending back al-'Aqabah-bound ships after inspecting them in a manner that conflicts with UN instructions." He added that this issue "has become a heavy burden on the Jordanian economy and Jordanians." He pointed out that European shipping companies have threatened to suspend shipping operations to al-'Aqabah port. He also said that the tough inspection measures are applied to Jordan, out of all the states neighboring Iraq. Deputy 'Abd-al-Ra'uf al-Rawabidah, a former minister, urged the government not to return to the Arab-Israeli peace negotiations before the United States lifts "the sea blockade imposed on al-'Aqabah." Deputy Muhammad Dawudyah described the U.S. behavior as "muscle-flexing, arrogance, and encroachment on national sovereignty. It is an insult to us and represents a state aggression and state terrorism." Dawudyah, who held the post of director of the information office in the Royal Court before his election as deputy, added that the "U.S. position reflects hostility toward the Arab nation" -- which requires "a pause for examination lest this hostile position on al-'Aqabah affects the peace issue and our national rights." he said: "How can we allow anyone who carries out all these actions against us to become a broker, partner, and sponsor in major issues?" Well-informed Jordanian sources have told AL-HAYAH that Jordan is being subjected to strong U.S. pressures to force it to rush to to sign a peace agreement with Israel. [passage omitted]
