FBIS3-32111 "drlat022_q_94002" FBIS-LAT-94-022 Document Type:Daily Report 2 Feb 1994 Paraguay Drug, Investment Protection Agreements Signed With Peru PY0102203294 Asuncion ULTIMA HORA in Spanish 1 Feb 94 p 12 PY0102203294 Asuncion ULTIMA HORA Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Text] Lima -- The governments of Paraguay and Peru agreed to combat the improper use, production, and illegal trafficking of drugs and psychotropic substances. This agreement was signed on 31 January by Paraguayan Foreign Minister Luis Maria Ramirez Boettner and his Peruvian counterpart, Efrain Goldenberg Schreiber. The agreement's purpose is to promote cooperation between the governments of Paraguay and Peru in order to prevent and combat with greater efficiency the illegal trafficking and abuse of drugs and psychotropic substances by harmonizing their policies and developing coordinated actions and programs. In order to fulfill the agreement's objectives, the two countries' pertinent services will exchange information about preventive measures against drug abuse in their respective territories. They also will prepare joint strategies to prevent drug abuse, the illegal production of drugs, and to repress drug trafficking. They also will exchange information about illegal trafficking and the use of precursors and basic chemicals, illegal trafficking routes, and the modus operandi of drug traffickers. The two countries' foreign ministers have likewise signed another agreement for the reciprocal protection and promotion of investments, wishing to intensify economic cooperation to the two countries' benefit. The document states that each country will guarantee the investments and free transfer of payments connected with these investments, especially profits, loan mortgages, and others made by the other country. Ramirez Boettner and Goldenberg Schreiber also signed a cooperation agreement between the Diplomatic and Consular Academies of Asuncion and Lima. In turn, Presidents Wasmosy and Fujimori signed a joint declaration in which they reasserted the friendship between the governments and peoples of Paraguay and Peru.
