FBIS3-54266 "drnes016dd_94003" FBIS-NES-94-016 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Jan 1994 Palestinian Affairs Opposition Factions `Leadership Committee' Meets PM2401101494 London AL-HAYAH in Arabic 20 Jan 94 p 5 PM2401101494 London AL-HAYAH Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Report by Ibrahim Humaydi] [Text] Damascus -- The "leadership committee" in the Alliance of Palestinian Forces opposed to the Gaza-Jericho agreement began its first meeting yesterday to discuss the basic issues deferred when the alliance was announced prior to the Syrian-U.S. summit early in the month. Palestinian sources have told AL-HAYAH that the leadership committee is discussing four fundamental issues. The sources pointed out that the "10 factions" have agreed on political tasks, "not a political program, and tasks are less binding on participants than a program." The sources added that "after strenuous efforts we formed the alliance and determined its tasks. We did not discuss the political program question, so that no faction will be under a total obligation and so that this program will not conflict with its own." On the issues dealt with at the leadership committee meeting, the sources said that disputed questions include the tasks of the popular congresses, the share of every independent faction, the position on the phased program for 1974 [as published], and the factions' relationship with the National Islamic Command of the Intifadah. The Palestinian sources said that "the Islamic Resistance Movement (Hamas) stresses that the popular conferences to be held inside and outside [the occupied territories] should not be granted any organizational capacity and that their role should be confined to the political and propagandistic aspects "opposed to the Palestinian-Israeli agreement." The sources said that the representation ratio for every faction in the leadership committee "has been deferred until further notice, because it tends to provoke disagreement among the factions more than any other issue. The same applied to the position on the international resolutions." The sources said that Hamas representatives reject these resolutions and do not comply with them or with the phased Palestinian program. And that they believe that this program "is being used by (Palestinian President Yasir) 'Arafat as a cover for all he is doing now, on the basis of the status quo policy."
