FBIS3-54944 "drsov003_b_94031" FBIS-SOV-94-003 Document Type:Daily Report 5 Jan 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political Issues Organized Crime Widespread Throughout Russia LD0401135994 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1246 GMT 4 Jan 94 LD0401135994 Moscow ITAR-TASS Language: English Article Type:BFN [By ITAR-TASS analyst Vladimir Gondusov] [Text] Moscow January 4 TASS -- "There is no single centre of organised crime in Russia. However, there have been attempts by criminal rings to coordinate their illegal activities in the regions. And these attempts have not always been unsuccessful," First Deputy Interior Minister of Russia Colonel-General Mikhail Yegorov said in his opening report on "business and crime in Russia," delivered to a three-day international seminar "for honest business," which opened at the Russian Management Academy here today. The seminar is being attended by economists, law scholars, bankers, and heads of commercial structures from practically all the CIS countries. General Yegorov noted that organised crime today controlled about 40,000 commercial and state enterprises and organisations. Capital, earned in recent years, is being multiplied mainly by means of illegal financial transactions involving forged advice notes, automobile trade, drug-trafficking and trade in armaments. The struggle for spheres of influence among various criminal gangs is continuing unabated. According to Yegorov, from 600 to 700 cases of racketeering, from 10 to 15 cases of hostage-taking, and from 30 to 35 armed clashes between gangs are now being registered every month. Yegorov noted that the professionalism of criminals had increased. This is borne out by the recent assassinations of prominent bankers and businessmen. The deputy minister urged businessmen to stop doubting the efficiency of law enforcement bodies. He stressed, in particular, that "full-blooded" units to combat organised crime were formed in all the regions of the country, and that they were prepared to react promptly and effectively to any extreme situation. "To ensure honest business, we are able to take upon ourselves the tasks of guarding commercial buildings, transporting valuables and other cargoes, installing alarm systems, which will bring our men to the spot within a few minutes. We need common tactics to coordinate the actions of private security services and official law enforcement bodies," Yegorov stated.
