FBIS4-5907 "dreas073_d_94015" FBIS-EAS-94-073 Daily Report 15 Apr 1994 South Korea Report on Conclusion of UR Talks in Morocco Report on Conclusion of UR Talks in Morocco SK1504085394 Seoul YONHAP in English 0836 GMT 15 Apr 94 SK1504085394 Seoul YONHAP English BFN [Text] Marrakesh, Morocco, April 15 (YONHAP) -- The Trade Negotiation Committee (TNC) ministerial meeting closed on Friday, officially winding up the tough Uruguay Round (UR) talks. Trade ministers from 125 countries adopted the Marrakesh declaration, signaling the end of the UR negotiations, and four ministerial decisions before they signed the final act wrapping up the seven-and-a-half-year UR process. South Korean Trade, Industry and Energy Minister Kim Chol-su signed the final act and the government procurement agreement but did not initial the accord on establishing the World Trade Organization (WTO), an annex to the final act. The government plans to sign the accord after the National Assembly ratifies the UR agreement. Under the final act, participating countries promise to accept the results of the UR negotiations and adopt domestic legal procedures to launch the WTO system as soon as possible. With the signing, legal conditions were satisfied for inauguration of the WTO, which will replace the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) system that has regulated global trade since World War II. The Marrakesh declaration established a preparatory committee for the WTO and devised the necessary measures to effectuate the WTO accord on Jan. 1, 1995, or the earliest possible date next year. The four ministerial decisions cover trade and the environment, establishment of the preparatory comittee for the WTO, acceptance of and accession to the agreement establishing the WTO, and the organizational and financial consequences of implementing the agreement establishing the WTO. The decision on trade and the environment regulates the establishment of the trade and environment committee in order to study the two areas' linkage at the WTO's first council meeting. That on the creation of the preparatory committee concerns the effort to carry out a smooth change from the GATT to the WTO system. GATT Secretary-general Peter Sutherland was appointed chairman of the preparatory committee in a private capacity. The decision on the acceptance of and accession to the agreement regulates procedures in dealing with original members of the WTO and those countries which do not participate in the WTO or which have not confirmed country schedules in the goods and service fields. That on the organizational and financial consequences flowing from implementation of the agreement establishing the WTO regulates donations for the WTO budget and the working terms of WTO staff. Meanwhile, Minister Kim said South Korea should concentrate on using the WTO system effectively in the future. "The UR negotiations confirmed free trade and multilateralism, and will serve as the most important momentum in world trade history," Kim said after signing the final act.
