FBIS4-38769 "drsov106_e_94006" FBIS-SOV-94-106 Daily Report 1 Jun 1994 UKRAINE International Affairs Deputies Offer Solutions to Crimean Issue Deputies Offer Solutions to Crimean Issue LD0106160294 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service in Russian 1500 GMT 1 Jun 94 LD0106160294 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service Russian BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondents Viktor Demidenko and Mikhail Melnik] [Text] Kiev, 1 Jun -- "Official Simferopol must remember that Crimea is a constituent part of Ukraine, and therefore it ought to bring the Constitution of the autonomous republic in line with Ukrainian legislation." That was the main idea of today's speeches by Ukrainian parliamentarians during the debate on the "Crimean question." Some deputies demanded that the Constitution of the Crimean republic be suspended until it is brought in line with the Constitution of Ukraine, and that the population of the peninsula should abide by the laws of the Ukrainian state. Some said that the powers of the Crimean Supreme Council must be suspended early. In this connection, the Ukrainian president was asked to set up executive bodies of state power on the territory of Crimea and to ensure that Ukraine's constitutional norms are observed. Many speakers believe that the situation in Crimea is adversely affected by the presence of Russian military units. In the opinion of some deputies, talks should be held with the Russian president about the withdrawal of Russian military formations, ships, and associations of the Black Sea Fleet beyond Ukrainian borders. However, the Ukrainian president does not share this point of view. He believes that "this issue cannot be approached from this angle". This would be wrong above all from a strategic point of view, he said. Ukraine cannot afford to deprive Russia of the possibility of having its own fleet in the Black Sea, he said. History determined that Ukraine and Russia must be friends, live in peace with each other, and have relations of equal partnership, he said. The question of the fleet is an "issue between Ukraine and Russia," Leonid Kravchuk stressed. And it must be resolved gradually without making the situation worse. Some parliamentarians believe that in many respects the Crimean issue has arisen because socio-economic problems on the peninsula remain unresolved.
