FBIS4-61772 "drsov090_d_94005" FBIS-SOV-94-090 Daily Report 7 May 1994 Regional Affairs Police, Khimki Mayor Trade Charges on Deputy's Murder Police, Khimki Mayor Trade Charges on Deputy's Murder PM0905115794 Moscow KOMSOMOLSKAYA PRAVDA in Russian 7 May 94 p 4 PM0905115794 Moscow KOMSOMOLSKAYA PRAVDA Russian BFN [Vladimir Zaynetdinov and Sergey Sergiyenko report: "It Turns Out That the Moscow Militia Has One Concern -- To Tail the Mayor of Khimki"] [Text] The assassination of State Duma Deputy Andrey Ayzderdzis, which happened in the evening of 26 April this year in the Moscow suburb of Khimki, is continuing to agitate the public. A joint investigating group from the General Prosecutor's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and the Federal Counterintelligence Service is working in the city. All the available manpower and resources have been brought into operation. Major General Vladimir Kolesnikov, chief of the Russian Ministry of Internal Affairs Criminal Investigation Main Directorate, has practically "moved" his office to Khimki. However, it seems that everything is already obvious to the Khimki administration. That, at least, was the claim that was laid on thick at a news conference that was held. Notably, Khimki chief Yuriy Korablin stated that KOMSOMOLSKAYA PRAVDA has put out a number of exclusively ordered (that is, generously paid for, evidently) materials indirectly accusing Yuriy Vadimovich and his assistants of involvement in the assassination. The versions published in KOMSOMOLSKAYA PRAVDA are based on documents obtained from state structures. The chief's unfounded accusations against the editorial office are good reason for a meeting in court. And not only for journalists. As Korablin stated, the Regional Administration for Organized Crime [RAOC] under the Moscow Oblast Internal Affairs Main Administration is directly related to the assassination! Specifically, he means Major General Aleksandr Kartashov, who heads the RAOC. "We have been reliably informed that Mr. Kartashov is today doing all he can to lead the investigation in another direction.... Is this deliberate or unintentional? Either it testifies to a low professional standard, or else it testifies to a personal interest...." If the head of the Khimki administration is to be belived, the only thing the RAOC is doing is "shepherding" Korablin about day and night. "Four vehicles and eight staffers are following me around full time, which gives you a very unpleasant sensation." The RAOC commented on this information as follows: "One section is involved in external observation, and it only has three clapped-out little Zhigulis."
