FBIS4-40310 "drsov116_d_94008" FBIS-SOV-94-116 Daily Report 16 Jun 1994 Regional Affairs Says FCS, MVD To Cooperate Says FCS, MVD To Cooperate LD1606073594 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 0635 GMT 16 Jun 94 LD1606073594 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [By ITAR-TASS] [Text] Vladivostok June 16 ITAR-TASS -- The Russian Federal Counterintelligence Service [FCS] is about to set up a special department to detect and detain criminals, FCS chief Sergey Stepashin said at a press conference in Vladivostok today. He also said the special services of Japan, North Korea and China have stepped up their activities in the Maritime Territory. Responding to an ITAR-TASS question about interaction between the local branches of the Federal Counterintelligence Service and the local internal affairs authorities in light of the president's decree on emergency measures of protecting people from gangs of bandits and other forms of organised crime, Stepashin said he would sign an agreement with the Interior Minister Viktor Yerin next week to boost interaction and divide powers between the two government agencies. According to Stepashin, it has been decided to put an end "to certain competition between the agencies". Counterintelligence agents will tackle corruption in the top echelons of state power and jointly with the Interior Ministry will trace a number of organised criminal groups active in in the field of international terrorism and the narcobusiness. The Federal Counterintelligence service will help the Interior Ministry also by supplying it with special equipment. Stepashin said the president would soon sign a decree setting up a special department within the service in the centre and its territorial branches in the regions of the Russian Federation. They will enable the counterintelligence service to take direct part in detecting, detaining and destroying those who encroach on the law, human life and rights. Stepashin said the president's decree was "very tough" and expressed confidence that it would be supported by an absolute majority of people in Russia. "But on one condition - if tangible results are achieved. If the Federal Counterintelligence Service, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the prosecutor's office of the Russian Federation fail to implement the decree, the question will have to be raised about personal responsibility". Stepashin left for Nakhodka today.
