FBIS3-53089 "drnes007_v_94005" FBIS-NES-94-007 Document Type:Daily Report 11 Jan 1994 Pakistan Foreign Minister's Remarks on Kashmir Criticized BK1001094394 Islamabad THE NATION in English 10 Jan 94 p 11 BK1001094394 Islamabad THE NATION Language: English Article Type:BFN [Editorial: "Talk of Nuclear War?"] [Text] The words attributed to Foreign Minister Sardar Assef Ahmad Ali that nuclear war could engulf the whole of South Asia if the Kashmir dispute was not resolved, are hard to believe. To contemplate such an eventuality, howsoever remote it may be, cannot be accepted. Firstly, because Pakistan has so far been insisting that its nuclear programme is of a peaceful nature. And secondly, because such a statement coming from Pakistan's Foreign Minister will only give an excuse to India not to sign the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. India would project his statement abroad as a threat and start stockpiling nuclear arms openly. The reason why Sardar Assef made that statement, if at all, is not hard to find. His perception, as also the perception of most Pakistanis, is that India is not serious in solving the Kashmir problem. It wants to intensify its brutal suppression of the freedom movement till all those involved in it are killed or otherwise eliminated. By holding talks with Pakistan, it only wishes to impress those foreign powers which have been pressuring it to find a negotiated settlement with Pakistan. It also wants to buy time. An indication of that is the recent statement of the Indian Prime Minister Narasimha Rao, in which he said that India would soon solve the Kashmir problem in its favour. Provocative as this and other statements of the Indian leaders may be (such as that of the Defence Minister Dinesh Singh, who said that the Kashmiris have only one choice, that of joining India), our reaction ought to be of restraint. After all, not all the peaceful means of tackling this problem have yet been exhausted. Pakistan's efforts to rouse international opinion against Indian obduracy have yet to begin. The effort to mobilise public sentiment abroad against the violation of human rights in Held Kashmir, which had to be abandoned earlier, has yet to be revived. Fortunately, the attitude of the UN Secretariat, which used to be of indifference only a few months back, has changed. Its rebuttal of the Indian Foreign Secretary's claim about the `irrelevance' of the UN Resolutions has been quite firm and clear. We have to wait and see if the world will stand by and condone the genocide of the Kashmiris? We will also have to see if we, being driven to the wall, are left with no way out. Only then we should think of other solutions than of peace.
