FBIS3-17675 "drsov060_v_94002" FBIS-SOV-94-060 Document Type:Daily Report 29 Mar 1994 Lithuania Brazauskas Holds News Conference on Baltic Summit WS2903095394 Vilnius ELTA in English 0327 GMT 29 Mar 94 WS2903095394 Vilnius ELTA Language: English Article Type:BFN [From "News Bulletin" No. 466] [Text] Vilnius, March 28, ELTA -- President Algirdas Brazauskas told a news conference on Monday [28 March] the co-ordination of actions of the three Baltic presidents was a necessary condition to get closer to the political, economical and security structures of Europe. A lot of attention in the meeting of the three presidents was paid at the co-operation with Visegrad countries. Estonian President Lennart Meri offered a concept "Northern-Southern axis". This would mean a formula "5+3+4" (five Nordic, three Baltic and four Visegrad states). Estonian and Latvian presidents appreciated ratification of Lithuanian-Polish international treaty. This agreement is a step towards Europe, especially that Poland is an associate member of the European Union. Those who contradict signing of the treaty with Polish President Lech Walesa in April in Vilnius, are serving the isolationist policies. Estonian and Lithuanian presidents also appreciated ratification of four Latvian-Russian agreements. Latvian President Guntis Ulmanis told the summit there were various as well as contrary opinions about them. The step made by Latvia may be useful also for Estonia which is to begin a new round of talks with Russia in April, Brazauskas said. Although the Baltic presidents confirmed an agreement on their regular summits and co-ordinated activity, the Baltic council was not created. Such a council, similar to the Nordic Council, should involve broader - parliamentary and governmental - structures. They agreed to arrange agreements on various issues, e.g. a free trade agreement which is to come into force in April 1. On the governmental level, an agreement on social guarantees for citizens of any Baltic state working or studying in the other Baltic state, will be arranged.
