FBIS3-37992 "drsov038_f_94007" FBIS-SOV-94-038 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Feb 1994 National Affairs Crimean Speaker To Help President MK2402132094 Moscow NEZAVISIMAYA GAZETA in Russian 24 Feb 94 p 2 MK2402132094 Moscow NEZAVISIMAYA GAZETA Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Aleksandr Pilat report under the "Crimea" rubric: "Bagrov To Help Meshkov. The Speaker Who Lost a Presidential Race Will Have a Role Yet"] [Text] Opening a meeting of the Supreme Soviet Presidium, Crimean Parliament Speaker Nikolay Bagrov said: "My application to resign is still in force. But since the session has not granted this request, and taking into account a number of circumstances, I have decided to hold a meeting." Referring to the circumstances, Bagrov said: "First, the situation is difficult and we need to create a normal environment for the president's work. Second, there is no need to elect a new parliamentary chairman. Third, the Supreme Soviet ought to operate." Nikolay Bagrov gave a negative assessment of the Ukrainian Supreme Council's decision to hold local elections on 26 June together with the Ukrainian presidential elections: "This is unwise, all the more so because it will be in our tourist season." Bagrov proposed that this matter be passed to the session for consideration. A proposal by Presidium member Viktor Bobylev to lift the moratorium on holding a referendum on the Republic of Crimea's independence was turned down. Later Nikolay Bagrov held a news conference. He told journalists about Yevgeniy Saburov, deputy prime minister of the Republic of Crimea: "This man merits attention, and he ought to show what he can do." Nikolay Bagrov made it clear that he cut his vacation in order to stay in his office for another month (he will resign after the March elections) to help the president. "I am ready, together with Supreme Soviet deputies, to create conditions for the work of the executive branch." The speaker dwelled in detail on the proposed discussion of the Crimean budget at the parliamentary session. "If presently a city plans to receive 700 billion karbovanets in profits, but receives only 8 billion, drawing up a budget will be a very difficult thing to do," Nikolay Bagrov said. "What I very much fear is whether we will be able to survive after Ukraine enabled us to draw up our own budget and will not give us anything." Nikolay Bagrov had a negative view on Crimea's joining the ruble zone and holding a referendum on Crimea's independence. In his opinion, all that is unrealistic.
