FBIS4-14684 "drsov064_a_94027" FBIS-SOV-94-064 Daily Report 2 Apr 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Meets Syrian President Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Meets Syrian President LD0204180894 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service in Russian 1655 GMT 2 Apr 94 LD0204180894 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service Russian BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondents Dmitriy Zelenin and Viktor Khrekov] [Text] Beirut, 2 Apr -- Syrian President Hafiz al-Asad received Igor Ivanov, Russian first deputy foreign minister, in Damascus today. In the course of a detailed discussion, which proceeded in a friendly atmosphere traditional for the two countries, they discussed a whole range of issues of bilateral cooperation between the Russian Federation and the Syrian Arab Republic. Both sides expressed their aspiration for the further development of bilateral ties and for filling with specific contents agreements reached in principle in various spheres of cooperation. A sincere political dialogue on topical international and regional problems took place. The sides outlined concrete steps called upon to strengthen the trends toward making effective use of the potential of bilateral relations. An in-depth exchange of opinions on all the problems of a Near East settlement confirmed the coincidence of approaches of Russia and Syria regarding the need for making as soon as possible real progress and energetic advance toward establishing a stable, comprehensive, and just peace in the Near East, and also along Syrian-Israeli and other lines of the talks. President Hafiz al-Asad placed the accent on the importance of the role of Russia as co-sponsor of the peace process in the region, and of a great power closely linked historically with its peoples and countries. The Russian side stressed that Moscow regards Syria as a key partner within the context of peacekeeping efforts. It was agreed to continue regular political contacts at all levels in the future as well, and to have a more active interaction on the main aspects of the Middle East situation. Hafiz al-Asad received the message from President Boris Yeltsin with gratitude, and stated that the assessment and considerations of the Russian side will serve to strengthen the multilateral relations between Russia and Syria, and to ensure security and peace in the Middle East.
