FBIS4-15405 "drsov068_b_94030" FBIS-SOV-94-068 Daily Report 8 Apr 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Media Issues Court Dismisses IZVESTIYA Suit Against Government Court Dismisses IZVESTIYA Suit Against Government PM0804133794 Moscow IZVESTIYA in Russian 8 Apr 94 p 2 PM0804133794 Moscow IZVESTIYA Russian BFN [Eduard Gonzalez report: "Another Trial Behind Us. Izvestiya Publishing House Case Against Russian Government Over"] [Text] It will soon be a year that representatives of the Izvestiya Publishing House have been paying occasional visits to the Russian Federation Supreme Court of Arbitration. Its ruling, as we have already reported, is now legally valid -- regarding the lawfulness of the founding of the "IZVESTIYA Editorial Office" Joint-Stock Company. However the publishing house filed new charges -- this time against the Russian Government. Why, they say, did it give the order for the joint-stock company to be privatized? Although this question has been discussed on two occasions as part of the case and two legal bodies have adopted a ruling, a court comprising A. Kozlova, T. Yegorova, and I. Podyachev was forced to consider it separately. There is nothing you can do about it -- that is the plaintiff's procedural right. The interests of the Russian Government were represented by P. Mostova, first deputy chairman of the Russian State Committee for the Management of State Property, and lawyer B. Maksimov. The editorial office's interests were defended by A. Rakhmilovich, member of the Moscow City Collegium of Attorneys. The court produced its ruling -- that the proceedings be dismissed. The reasons have not yet been given and we do not know what they will reveal. But we can guess what the judges will quite understandably not say. Namely, only in our upside-down back-to-front world can someone who uses state property file charges against the owner -- the country's government. And the owner has to justify himself instead of asking: How do you use state property? Were the owner to ask that question a host of trials would sweep across Russia. And not of course in courts of arbitration. However, these subjective impressions have nothing to do with the trial and its ruling.
