FBIS3-10119 "drlat041_g_94002" FBIS-LAT-94-041 Document Type:Daily Report 2 Mar 1994 Guatemala Attorney General Charges Plot Against Executive PA0103162694 Guatemala City SIGLO VEINTIUNO in Spanish 28 Feb 94 p 3 PA0103162694 Guatemala City SIGLO VEINTIUNO Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Text] Attorney General Telesforo Guerra Cahn has charged: "A well-known political party and radical groups are plotting against the executive to weaken it to the extreme of creating total anarchy." The attorney general has referred to the strike of government professionals and bureaucrats during the past days. He has said it was a clear example of the plan being implemented by the mentioned sectors, which, by the way, have not agreed to negotiate with executive representatives. When one studies seriously the actions taken to end the strike of the workers, who are demanding a wage increase, you will notice there have been several officials who have disobeyed the president's orders, Guerra has stated. He has cited the case of the San Juan de Dios Hospital directors who have refused to comply with the law and write the corresponding reports against the striking workers and, in addition, have decided to resign as a whole. This, he has said, is evidence they are being manipulated by the destabilizing groups I have mentioned. The attorney general has said the decisions made lately by many judges is another act included in the plot. The rulings attempt to mock government officials who have started actions to get work to advance in the proper legal framework. Although the health workers and those in the municipal cemetery were acting illegally, a judge ordered their release last week and opened a criminal case against representatives of the Attorney General's Office, he has reported. Guerra has also said a judge had rejected the charges presented against the strikers who occupied the National Palace. Obviously, he said, an illegal action was committed there. Furthermore, an amparo was presented to order the bureaucrats to reinitiate the rendering of basic services to the public, and, up to now, nothing has been resolved on this issue. Attorney General Guerra has said he believed there is an attempt to weaken the government's authority and to confuse public opinion to get it to believe there is a power vacuum.
