FBIS4-42057 "drweu104cc_94003" FBIS-WEU-94-104 Daily Report 27 May 1994 INTER-EUROPEAN AFFAIRS Swedish Defense Minister Views EU Defense, PFP Swedish Defense Minister Views EU Defense, PFP AU2705155394 Vienna DIE PRESSE in German 27 May 94 p 5 AU2705155394 Vienna DIE PRESSE German BFN [Otmar Lahodynsky report: "No EU Military for a Long Time Yet"] [Text] Brussels -- "There will certainly be no European defense structure before the year 2000. This process simply takes time." In an interview with DIE PRESSE, Swedish Defense Minister Andres Bjork explained that the European Union [EU] is not yet prepared for a joint military policy. The politician does not expect any decisions on military cooperation to be made at the EU government conference planned for 1996. "Every member country will have a veto right there." However, the war in former Yugoslavia shows every day "that we need a European security structure," the former secretary general of the Council of Europe said. Sweden will continue its nonaligned foreign policy also in the European Union. Bjork rules out NATO membership for Sweden over the long term; relations with the Western European Union [WEU] will depend on the government conference in 1996. However, Sweden is banking on cooperation with NATO and therefore also participates in the Partnership for Peace [PFP]. "Sweden's neutrality policy will not be affected by it." Bjork also expects useful information of the NATO cooperation program. For example, a talk on security in the Baltic area, in which Russian Defense Minister Pavel Grachev also participated, took place on the sidelines of the NATO meeting. Bjork rejects a change of the treaty on conventional armed forces, which was suggested by Grachev and would permit the transfer of a large number of Russian troops and tanks in the area of St. Petersburg. "This question is not to be dealt with within the framework of the PFP, but in Vienna." Bjork gave an evasive answer to the question of whether Austria should not also accede to NATO's PFP after Sweden and Finland. "The government in Vienna must decide this." He does not see any problems because of the neutral status. "Sweden will continue to stick to its independent defense. Since we have not been attacked since 1894, it seems to be very efficient." With an ironic undertone, Bjork added: "I always use this argument to get more money for our army from the Finance Ministry. Unfortunately, I am not always successful."
