FBIS3-6962 "dreas056_d_94008" FBIS-EAS-94-056 Document Type:Daily Report 23 Mar 1994 South Korea U.S. Mood on DPRK Nuclear Issue Assessed SK2303031194 Seoul YONHAP in English 0159 GMT 23 Mar 94 SK2303031194 Seoul YONHAP Language: English Article Type:BFN [By Son Chae-kyu] [Text] Washington, March 22 (YONHAP) -- Talk of war on the Korean peninsula is flaring up again as the UN Security Council prepares a resolution on North Korea next week, but the prevalent feeling here is that it is just that -- talk. U.S. President Bill Clinton has already confirmed that Patriot missiles will be deployed in South Korea, and press reports here say the Pentagon is seriously considering additional measures such as strengthening American forces in South Korea, placing aircraft carriers near the peninsula and preparing for chemical warfare. Secretary of State Warren Christopher added to the hysteria Tuesday, saying the effectiveness of U.S. diplomatic efforts is in doubt. But working-level officials believe otherwise. The WASHINGTON POST reported on the additional military measures on the Korean peninsula, while emphasizing that Washington has yet to set a definitive policy direction. The Department of Defense has drawn up multiple contingency plans in case war breaks out anywhere in the world, and planning on the Korean peninsula remains within this framework, it said. State Department officials said no military action has been decided except the Patriot deployment. Department Spokesman Mike McCurry made a point of repeating that the Patriot missiles and the South Korean-U.S. military drill Team Spirit are both purely defensive in nature. Nevertheless, there are ominous signs. Defense officials last week confirmed reports that U.S. aircraft carriers, including the Independence and Abraham Lincoln, and warships are conducting operations near the peninsula. The operations, taking place just a couple of thousand miles from the East Sea, are the first such maneuvers in months and are tied to the possibility of holding Team Spirit. The official explanation is that the operations were planned in advance and are unrelated to the current tension in Korea. A fleet of that size requires considerable time to dispatch, meaning the carriers and warships were on their way before the North Korean situation flared up. Defense officials refused to confirm the report about a strengthening of U.S. Forces in South Korea, reminding that American military strategy remains secret until a firm decision has been made. The seeming difference of opinion in Washington is probably a two-pronged approach carefully planned by U.S. officials. The Clinton administration is in search of a new impetus that can put the ball in a different court without the present tension. While high-level officials talk of a military threat, mid-level officials speak differently. This is probably Washington's way of waving both the stick and the carrot.
