FBIS4-39989 "drsov113_f_94004" FBIS-SOV-94-113 Daily Report 11 Jun 1994 National Affairs Crimean Delegation Submits Draft Agreement to Parliament Crimean Delegation Submits Draft Agreement to Parliament LD1106154394 Moscow INTERFAX in English 1325 GMT 11 Jun 94 LD1106154394 Moscow INTERFAX English BFN [Text] Friday [10 June] evening the Crimean parliament's delegation from the joint working group submitted to the Ukrainian side a draft agreement between Ukraine and the Crimea. The draft consists of three parts: powers the Crimea delegates to Kiev; powers Ukraine can delegate to the Crimea; and common powers, the leader of the Crimean delegation, Sergey Nikulin, told Interfax-Ukraina on Saturday [11 June]. Nikulin gave no details as to the content of the three parts. According to him, during their round of talks which was concluded in Simferopol on Friday "the two sides did not even try to consider those articles of the Crimean Constitution that do not suit Ukraine." "The Crimean delegation declared that the Crimean Constitution will not be revised," he noted. The final protocol signed by the leaders of the Ukrainian and Crimean delegations reflects the outlook of the Crimean side which believes that it's essential to work out constitutional foundations for dividing powers between the highest government bodies of Ukraine and the Crimea." According to the document, solution to the "constitutional and legislative collisions" between Kiev and Simferopol should be reached in three stages: "work out an appropriate legal base, devise a legal mechanism for eliminating contradictions between the Crimea and Ukraine, and prepare recommendations for the Crimean and Ukrainian parliaments." The working group believes that only the first stage has been completed so far, and insists that the work should be continued. Members of the group also think that representatives of the Crimean parliament should take part in drafting Ukraine's new constitution. Saturday morning the Ukrainian delegation left for Kiev. The joint group may resume its work in Kiev next week.
