FBIS4-61917 "drsov091_a_94010" FBIS-SOV-94-091 Daily Report 11 May 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Center Director Welcomes Russian-U.S. Exercises Center Director Welcomes Russian-U.S. Exercises LD1105080494 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 0653 GMT 11 May 94 LD1105080494 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Anatoliy Yurkin] [Text] Moscow May 11 TASS -- Director of the Russian Military and Analytical Centre, Aleksandr Konovalov, believes that joint Russo-U.S. exercises on the Totsk test-site near the city of Orenburg will help bring the people of the two countries closer together. In an interview with ITAR-TASS Konovalov said that any "statements against conducting the maneuvers are prompted, primarily, by situational and political considerations and do not meet Russia's national interests." According to the military analyst, statements alleging that the U.S. intends to "find out" Russia's secrets during the exercises are groundless as well. He rejected speculations alleging that Americans are interested in obtaining documents about an air nuclear explosion above the test-site made by the former Soviet Union in the 1950s. According to Konovalov, the results of an investigation into after-effects of the explosion were made public and are no longer secret. Besides, a group of scientists had recently worked on the test-site and the results of their work were published and contain no secrets for the world public. Konovolov believes that the exercises of peace-keeping forces are of principal importance since Russian troops will inevitably have to carry out joint peace-keeping operations, while until now Russian soldiers and officers had not received sufficient experience. There is nothing wrong if a battalion, a regiment or a division take a training course using methods worked out by the best experts and experienced officers from Russia and the United States, Konovalov said. Such training exercises will help many Russian servicemen from a peace-keeping contingent to survive, he said. "The military will be offered a wonderful chance to communicate, to know each other better and it will be the best way of bringing the people of the two countries closer together, making war go back into the past," Konovalov said.
