FBIS3-10141 "drlat041_m_94009" FBIS-LAT-94-041 Document Type:Daily Report 2 Mar 1994 Brazil Mining Technology Accord Signed With Cuba 94SM0232D Sao Paulo GAZETA MERCANTIL in Portuguese 8 Feb 94 p 14 94SM0232D Sao Paulo GAZETA MERCANTIL Language: Portuguese Article Type:CSO [Article by Sergio Danilo: "Brazil and Cuba May Sign Technical Cooperation Accord"] [Text] Rio de Janeiro--Acting through the Union of Mining Geologists, the Government of Cuba has accepted the proposal by the Mineral Resources Prospecting Company (CPRM) to sign a Brazil-Cuba accord in the areas of geology and mining sometime this year. That information was provided to this newspaper by Samir Nahass, head of the CPRM's Division of International Relations. The Cubans have been interested since last year in signing the agreement to allow the two countries to exchange experts in the areas of prospecting and production. Cuba has large mining reserves of nickel, a mineral considered strategic by the world metallurgical industry. The Cubans were previously being given technical assistance by Soviet advisers from the former USSR. Now it is Brazil, with its big potential for nickel mines and its available technology, which will be able to provide Cuba with a package of services. China Brazil's main reserve of niobium ores--the deposit in Seis Lagos, Amazonas, which is owned by the CPRM and has reserves of rare earths--lacks the technology for separating those ores from the other elements that are present. According to Nahass, the Ministry of Geology and Mining of the PRC has offered that technology to the CPRM. Last year four geologists from the CPRM were in Beijing studying the quality of Chinese geology and familiarizing themselves with the mining technologies that may be transferred here for use in the CPRM's projects. The Chinese, who became the world's second-largest producer of iron ore last year (178 million metric tons), want to acquire the technology for concentrating iron ore from the Brazilians.
