FBIS4-39025 "drsov108_a_94008" FBIS-SOV-94-108 Daily Report 4 Jun 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Economic Losses Feared Over DPRK Sanctions Economic Losses Feared Over DPRK Sanctions MK0406113094 Moscow KOMMERSANT-DAILY in Russian 4 Jun 94 p 4 MK0406113094 Moscow KOMMERSANT-DAILY Russian BFN [Viktor Zamyatin article: "North Korea Nuclear Weapons Problem. Washington Ready To Impose Sanctions, Pyongyang Ready To Start War"] [Excerpts] Although Boris Yeltsin did state at the meeting with his South Korean counterpart Kim Yong-sam that it is still early to speak of sanctions against the DPRK, yesterday's developments indicate otherwise. It is believed in Washington, Tokyo, and Seoul, as well as in the IAEA that sanctions are already a must -- so far has Pyongyang gone in its stubbornness. [passage omitted] The IAEA proposes to the UN Security Council that political pressure be brought to bear on Pyongyang, and if those do not work, sanctions should be applied. The need for raising the question of sanctions against the DPRK in the UN Security Council was also discussed by Bill Clinton, who is in Italy, should the conclusions drawn by IAEA chief Blix be confirmed. In his words, the United States would press for sanctions even if Pyongyang regards this an "act of a declaration of war." [passage omitted] Not all UN Security Council permanent members, however, agree with Washington's arguments. Expressing their concern over the North Korea nuclear weapons problem, Moscow and Beijing prefer a more cautious position. Today Russia explains it by possible economic losses, pointing to the Iraq, Libya, and Yugoslavia precedents. Nevertheless it is still unclear how the Russian representative is going to act in a possible vote in the Security Council. More likely than not, China would as always abstain. According to a Chinese Foreign Ministry statement, Beijing would not like the use of measures that could worsen the situation. Pyongyang, meanwhile, is absolutely obviously preparing for war -- according to the statement of a North Korean politician, "sanctions, without a doubt, would lead to destructive consequences in Asia and the rest of the world, let alone the Korean Peninsula." According to CNN information, the DPRK flight-tested two rockets that can carry nuclear warheads. Shilly-shallying by the international community may entail unpredictable consequences.
