FBIS4-144 "drafr064_d_94001" FBIS-AFR-94-064 Daily Report 1 Apr 1994 SOUTHERN AFRICA Angola Correspondent Notes U.S. Role in Peace Talks Correspondent Notes U.S. Role in Peace Talks MB0104204794 Luanda TPA Television Network in Portuguese 1930 GMT 1 Apr 94 MB0104204794 Luanda TPA Television Network Portuguese BFN [Report by correspondent Joao Ligio in Lusaka] [Text] The war of words in Lusaka has revealed the identity of those involved in the negotiations. So far, one thought the government and the National Union for the Total Independence of Angola [UNITA] were the negotiators. It now seems that the United States is against the government. The mediator is shuttling between the sides, but to no avail. The Portuguese observer does not shuttle, preferring to indignantly witness the fight between the giants. The Russians brought in a breath of fresh air by proposing that the negotiations be restricted. The Americans, however, turned down the idea. Since then, nobody has questioned the time being taken. While UNITA (?takes) its time to form an opinion about the outcome of the negotiations, the U.S. delegation to the talks this morning met with the government team headed by Carlos Feijo, secretary of the Ministers Council. This is the third time a meeting of this nature has taken place since the start of the talks on 5 January 1994. Some observers believe such meetings have been like a tug of war, but others say this morning's meeting was an indication of flexibility on the part of the government delegation. No further details are available, except that Blondin Beye is scheduled to embark on a tour in search of international political backing and that his news blackout continues. In addition to seriously jeopardizing the role of the reporters, the blackout has led to differences of opinion between the negotiators. Opponents of Beye's news blackout say it is senseless to keep the ongoing of round of talks under wraps, so much so that Angola no longer features in the list of the world's main hotbeds of tension. In fact, the world public is today better informed about recent African disputes, such as in South Africa and Burundi, though those have not yet reached one-third the catastrophic proportions that Angola has been experiencing for over 20 years now. But that is Lusaka--where a news blackout is in force, although nobody knows why.
