FBIS4-9551 "dreeu082_i_94014" FBIS-EEU-94-082 Daily Report 27 Apr 1994 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA Rose Accused of Violating Flight Agreement Rose Accused of Violating Flight Agreement LD2704223294 Belgrade TANJUG Domestic Service in Serbo-Croatian 2054 GMT 27 Apr 94 LD2704223294 Belgrade TANJUG Domestic Service Serbo-Croatian BFN [Excerpts] Zvornik, 27 Apr (TANJUG) -- General Manojlo Milovanovic, the chief of the general staff of the republic of Srpska army, told TANJUG's correspondent this evening that General Michael Rose, UNPROFOR [UN Protection Forces] commander in Bosnia-Herzegovina, had violated the Belgrade agreement in the most blatant way. The UNPROFOR abused the agreed procedure regarding flights to Gorazde and sent to this enclave four helicopters that did not land in Sokolac. At the same time, taking advantage of the permission obtained from the Serb side for two helicopters that were checked in Sokolac, another four helicopters with unidentified cargo took off for Gorazde in their radar shadow using the same corridor. [passage omitted] At 1000 today, Gen. Milovanovic was told over the telephone that the UNPROFOR did not want a check in Sokolac on its way to Gorazde. The chief of the general staff of the republic of Srpska army disputed this, stressing that it would be a serious departure from the negotiated agreement. At about 1230, General Rose announced his departure for Gorazde, on condition that the helicopter did not stop in Sokolac. However, UNPROFOR's (?helicopter) squadron commander arrived in Sokolac with a Serbian inspection team to allegedly clarify the disagreement. When the Serbian side rejected the squadron commander's explanation he agreed to send two helicopters to be checked in Sokolac. Taking advantage of the permission granted by the Serbian side to allow the two helicopters through, four other helicopters took off for Gorazde in their [radar] shadow using the same corridor and time slot, bypassing Sokolac. The same happened on their way back.
