FBIS4-48259 "drafr095_e_94015" FBIS-AFR-94-095 Daily Report 15 May 1994 WEST AFRICA Nigeria Official Outlines Requirements for Ward Elections Official Outlines Requirements for Ward Elections AB1605130794 Lagos NTA Television Network in English 2000 GMT 15 May 94 AB1605130794 Lagos NTA Television Network English BFN [Text] The National Constitutional Election Committee (?has given the assurance that) it has concluded arrangements for a peaceful election for the delegates conference at both the ward and conference district levels. The committee's chairman, Mr. Bernard Mba, gave this assurance in Abuja. Correspondent Yakubu Abubakar has the report: [Begin Abubakar recording] Mr. Bernard Mba, who chaired [words indistinct] meeting with all the 60 members of the National Constitutional Election Committee to speak to newsmen, disclosed that the meeting is putting finishing touches to arrangements for the ward elections coming up on Monday, the 23d of this month. Mr. Mba described reports on the preparedness of all the states in the elections as encouraging. The National Constitutional Election Committee chairman once again clarified the two main requirements for candidates to the delegates election. He explained that only candidates for the conference districts election will be required to produce evidence of payments of tax for the past three years [words indistinct] while candidates for the ward elections will not be required to do so. The election guidelines have set 18 to 20 May as days for the publication and display of names, addresses, and other (?particulars) of candidates [words indistinct]. This is scheduled to take place simultaneously at the electioneering campaigns by candidates concerned within the same period. As the national [words indistinct] in charge of coordination and supervision concludes their meeting with the chairman and secretary today, they will be going to the states assigned to them with copies of the national guidelines [passage indistinct]. [end recording]
