FBIS4-33855 "drlat113_j_94003" FBIS-LAT-94-113 Daily Report 10 Jun 1994 Panama Endara To Leave for Summit; Ford in Charge Endara To Leave for Summit; Ford in Charge PA1106204394 Panama City Telemetro Television Network in Spanish 1730 GMT 10 Jun 94 PA1106204394 Panama City Telemetro Television Network Spanish BFN [Report by Juan de Dios Hernandez; from the "Telemetro Reports" Newscast] [Text] President Guillermo Endara will travel abroad and will leave Vice President Guillermo Ford in charge of the Palace of the Herons, in keeping with the Constitution and a decision made during a Cabinet Council meeting. The formal ceremony was held at the Presidency. President Guillermo Endara placed the presidential sash on Vice President Guillermo Ford, who will be president for 11 days. In the presence of ranking officials of the three state branches, the president said that he is leaving power in good hands as he travels abroad. [Begin Endara recording] These summits are perhaps the most important international events that a president can attend, because I will not only meet but also hold talks privately and publicly with my colleagues from all of Latin America, Spain, and Portugal. [end recording] Endara will head for Costa Rica where he will fine tune details of a proposal that he refused to elaborate on. He said that it will be presented at the Fourth Ibero-American summit. He will then travel to Cartagena de Indias where this summit will be held on 14- 15 June. Meanwhile, Guillermo Ford said that he will maintain the country while Endara is abroad and added that he is indebted to the Panamanian people. [Begin recording] [Reporter] Mr. President, what will be done in these 11 days? What are your plans for this period? [Ford] I do not want people to have exceedingly high expectations because 11 days is a very short period. First, I am responsible for maintaining peace and tranquillity in the country. Second, I have a few programs that will benefit the most needy classes. I prefer not to give details at this time because we will be working on them this afternoon and tomorrow. I want to create some optimism for the people. The best raw material available to this country is its people. Thus, we must offer them some benefits and the tools to help them take off. [end recording] Guillermo Ford, then, is occupying the presidency. He will enjoy the same powers that the president has. After the fourth summit, Endara will travel to Argentina along with Argentine President Carlos Menem on an official visit.
