FBIS4-20292 "drweu083_b_94001" FBIS-WEU-94-083 Daily Report 28 Apr 1994 BENELUX COUNTRIES Belgium UN Actions in Rwanda Questioned UN Actions in Rwanda Questioned BR2804142794 Brussels LE SOIR in French 28 Apr 94 p 8 BR2804142794 Brussels LE SOIR French BFN [Article by Rene Haquin: "Rwanda: Nonassistance During Massacre?"] [Excerpts] Some serious questions are being asked while reactions increase following the "open letter to our leaders" from the "Mortier platoon" of Flawinne, to which the 10 blue helmets massacred in Kigali belonged. The comrades in arms and the families of the victims are accusing the command of "nonassistance to persons in danger and a lack of team spirit" and are casting doubt on "the competence of certain officers." On Tuesday [26 April], General Charlier replied that "no element gives reason to believe that the command failed." [passage omitted] Did not the Rwandan Prime Minister's escort come under the UN mandate? The CGSP [General Directorate for Public Services] military union asks whether this mandate "explicitly" excluded the use of force except in cases of legitimate defense and whether the Belgian Government accepted this without reservation. Who gave the order to hand over the weapons? Why were they not assisted? The CGSP asks who made such decisions: The UN civil or military authorities, Belgian politicians in Brussels or at the embassy in Kigali, the Chief of Staff in Belgium or the Belgian command in Kigali? [passage omitted] Defense Minister Leo Delcroix has stated that the initial findings of the UN enquiry should be known by mid-May, but that on the basis of the first elements, there was "no failing of responsibility at the command level, Lieutenant Lotin and the UNAMIR [UN Mission in Rwanda] command acted correctly." Leo Delcroix is of the opinion that any armed intervention should "take into count the threat which would have been posed to the two other groups of blue helmets who were also surrounded." (15 at the airport and seven in another area -- editor's note). [passage omitted]
