FBIS4-65004 "drweu091_n_94005" FBIS-WEU-94-091 Daily Report 12 Apr 1994 NORDIC COUNTRIES Finland Center Party's Rehn on NATO, WEU Membership Center Party's Rehn on NATO, WEU Membership 94P20726A Helsinki HELSINGIN SANOMAT in Finnish 12 Apr 94 p 7 94P20726A Helsinki HELSINGIN SANOMAT Finnish CSO [Unattributed article: "Olli Rehn: Finland Must Consider NATO Membership"] [Text] Center Party Deputy Chairman Olli Rehn believes Finland should seriously consider joining NATO, the Western military alliance, because of the trend in Russia toward instability. "I don't want to frighten or threaten, nor do I believe there is [imminent] danger of military conflict, but the mounting hard-line Great Russia ambitions may bring risk of political pressure." Rehn presented his views on NATO in an interview with ILTA SANOMAT. He suspects that such political pressure could also be accompanied with a military threat. Rehn last week hosted a seminar organized in Helsinki by the Finnish delegation to the European Union [EU], in which Russian extreme nationalist Vladimir Zhirinovskiy participated. Rehn thought that Zhirinovskiy reflects the feelings of the Russian people, as well as the injured pride of a great power. It appears to Rehn that support for hard-line nationalism is growing. In his view, Finland must strengthen its own security while at the same time support building democracy in Russia. Living in the shadow of an unstable Russia, it is necessary for Finland to prepare also against the most negative eventualities. Along with having prepared itself for EU membership, Finland is getting into position to become an observer in the Western European Union (WEU). Observer status does not bring security guarantees; those require joining as a full member. Rehn stated that full membership in WEU is not a realistic alternative without membership in NATO, since the WEU's military strength rests with NATO. Foreign troops, bases, and nuclear weapons are elements Rehn would not permit on Finnish territory if Finland were to become a NATO member. Within the foreign policy leadership, a Finnish membership in NATO has been considered impossible as long as Russia is not organizationally tied with NATO.
