FBIS3-39222 "drweu031__a94006" FBIS-WEU-94-031-A Document Type:Daily Report 15 Feb 1994 ANNEX International Affairs Italy's Andreatta Comments on Bosnian Issues Proposes UN Humanitarian Conference BR1502112794 Rome ANSAMAIL Database in English 1600 GMT 14 Feb 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY BR1502112794 Rome ANSAMAIL Database Language: English Article Type:BFN [Unattributed article: "Bosnia: Andreatta Proposes Florence Parley To Butrus-Ghali"] [Text] Rome, 14 Feb (ANSA) -- Italian Foreign Minister Beniamino Andreatta has proposed, via letter, to United Nations Secretary General Butrus Butrus-Ghali that the latter convene "an operational meeting" in Florence to examine action plans for new humanitarian interventions in Bosnia. As to Sarajevo, in particular, the letter went on to say, such initiatives would be aimed at moving forward in time the administration of the city by the United Nations so that the "dramatic social problems" there could be dealt with internationally, as envisaged in the European Union [EU] peace plan. The contents of the letter were made known in a communique released here today by the Farnesina (foreign ministry). Andreatta wrote that in Bosnia, from a humanitarian point of view, solutions complementary to those of the UN and of the EU should be quickly developed. He suggested, for example, that UN troops might be assigned to more strictly humanitarian tasks such as medical and health assistence, and that an all-out effort be made to "immediately" get schools reopened and to create safe centers for children, their mothers and the elderly. He urged that attending this Florence conference should be those responsible for relevant international bodies such as UNHCR; UNICEF, the Red Cross and the World Health Organization; United States, Russian and European Community ministers in charge of humanitarian aid; the president of the Conference of Islamic States, and the Nobel Peace Prize laureates of recent years. In the text of his letter, Andreatta quoted Holocaust survivor and writer Primo Levi who said that "if we are in a position to alleviate suffering and fail to do so, we ourselves become torturers." Ever since the very start of this tragedy, Italy has given wholehearted support to those specialized agencies responsibile for humanitarian actions which have carried out, "with admirable dedication", the tough job of alleviating the suffering of civil populations in that part of the Balkans, the letter continued. It is now necessary to build on the growing public awareness of the tragedy, coming up with viable and effective solutions and putting them into practice, Andreatta said. An immediate program of support for social health and education services could be quickly set up and made operative in the besieged Bosnian capital of Sarajevo, for example; a program free from any sort of ethnic or religious discrimination, the Italian foreign minister said.
