FBIS4-20131 "drweu082_h_94003" FBIS-WEU-94-082 Daily Report 28 Apr 1994 GERMANY Minister Spranger Calls For Containing Migration Minister Spranger Calls For Containing Migration AU2804124294 Berlin DIE WELT in German 28 Apr 94 p 15 AU2804124294 Berlin DIE WELT German BFN [Report by Gerd Brueggemann: "Strategies Against Poverty"] [Excerpts] Washington -- The United Nations estimates that the number of refugees seeking security and new life perspectives in other countries is approximately 100 million worldwide, with trends pointing strongly upwards. The World Bank has thus made this problem, along with issues of population growth, the focus of its annual spring meeting, which ended in Washington on Tuesday [26 April]. [passage omitted] Federal Economic Cooperation Minister Carl-Dieter Spranger, who represented the Federal Government in Washington, pointed out that all measures suggested by the World Bank have to be accompanied by programs for the promotion of economic development because only then could one tackle the economic reasons of population growth and migratory movements. [passage omitted] Spranger pleaded for close cooperation between industrialized and development countries with the objective to "contain international refugee and migratory movements and make them controllable." In regions with a large population, drain projects must be supported financially that diminish the reasons for exodus and migration in the countries of origin. Support for the reintegration of people who return to their home country is also of preeminent importance. Apart from the population problem, much time was spent discussing the situation of world trade after the conclusion of the Uruguay Round. The World Bank expects the new GATT agreement to lead to $200-300 billion in annual income growths worldwide. With full implementation of the agreement, one-third of that amount would go to the developing countries. However, it is to be expected that not all countries will participate equally. Minister Spranger stated that this is why he strongly suggested that the World Bank and the IMF provide particular support to those countries that benefit only marginally from the GATT round.
