FBIS3-190 "drafr042_b_94003" FBIS-AFR-94-042 Document Type:Daily Report 3 Mar 1994 EAST AFRICA Somalia Aidid Meets With Envoys, Leaves for Nairobi EA0203191694 (Clandestine) Radio Mogadishu Voice of the Great Somali People in Somali 1700 GMT 2 Mar 94 EA0203191694 (Clandestine) Radio Mogadishu Voice of the Great Somali People Language: Somali Article Type:BFN [Text] The leader of the Somali National Alliance, SNA, who is also the chairman of the United Somali Congress, USC, Mohamed Farah Aidid and his large delegation left Addis Ababa International Airport today for Nairobi, Kenya. While in Addis Ababa, Mr. Aidid held talks with the French, Russian, Chinese, Italian, and Egyptian ambassadors to Ethiopia, based in Addis Ababa, whom he briefed on the situation in Somalia and his talks in Nairobi with the various groups of the Somali community. He also briefed them on the agreement he had reached with the leaders of Somali groups, an agreement based on understanding, collaboration and mutual respect, far removed from earlier mutually antagonistic attitudes. Asked by the Egyptian ambassador to Ethiopia why he would not be attending the Cairo meeting, Chairman Aidid replied that the SNA was not attending the conference organized by the Egyptian Government in Cairo, because the meeting violated the OAU Cairo agreement, which provided for the issue of the Somali people to be left to the leaders of the Horn of Africa and the Somalis themselves. The chairman went on to say that the Cairo conference would have a disruptive influence on the ongoing talks of the Somali people in Nairobi, Kenya. Chairman Aidid said that the talks of the Somali leaders in Nairobi were being supported and participated in by the leaders of the countries of the Horn of Africa. Aidid called on the Egyptian Government to stop interfering in the internal affairs of the Somali people. He said if Egypt really wanted to help the Somali people, the Egyptian Government should support and implement the December 1993 accord reached in Cairo, Egypt. The accord authorized the presidents of the countries of Horn of Africa to find a lasting solution to the crisis prevailing in Somalia and allow Somalis to decide their own destiny.
