FBIS3-59529 "jpest002__l94014" JPRS-EST-94-002-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Europe/International Economic Competitiveness 10 January 1994 WEST EUROPE CORPORATE STRATEGIES France: Bull To Invest in Computer Systems Company BR1412141093 Brussels TECH EUROPE in English 3 Dec 93 - FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY BR1412141093 Brussels TECH EUROPE Language: English Article Type:BFN [Unattributed article: "Electronics: Bull To Invest Heavily in `Facilities Management'"; as released by Brussels Euroscope EIS Database] [Text] The troubled French public electronics group, Bull, which is shortly to receive 8.6 billion FF [French francs] in fresh funding from the State, is ready to invest a "significant" amount in computer services, including the creation of a European company consolidating its interests in management of business computer systems, known as "facilities management". Bull will have a 51% stake in this European company, known as Athesa International and headed by the former Director of EDS-GFI [the French subsidiary of the world's top software house], Jacques Tordjman, while the other 49% will be distributed among three as yet unnamed other French companies. Discussions with potential partners should be completed before the end of January, according to Mr Tordjman, who added that the ideal combination would be two manufacturing firms and one bank. While declining to specify the amount of initial capital this holding company would possess, he indicated that it would be "significant" enough to allow the purchase of business computer systems. Athesa International will begin operating in 1994, with a total turnover of about 1.2 billion FF, and will take over Bull's internal computer concerns (which employ over 300 persons and alone represents a contract of from 500 million to one billion French franc, according to Mr Tordjman. Athesa will also absorb the 400 million FF initial turnover of its only subsidiary, Athesa France, which is held in equal parts by Bull and Cisi [International Company for Data Processing Services] and is responsible for managing CEA's [Atomic Energy Agency] computer systems. Other subsidiaries are expected to be established in other European countries, probably starting in England, where facilities management is the most highly developed. Bull will seek to create companies jointly with local partners. Mr Tordjman also announced that Athesa would create a New Technologies Institute to retrain computer operations staff taken on by Athesa with the acquisition of a client's business computer systems. Such transfers are often perceived as threats by the employees concerned.
