FBIS3-45296 "drchi011_b_94004" FBIS-CHI-94-011 Document Type:Daily Report 18 Jan 1994 United States & Canada Visit by Richard Gephart, Delegation Reported Qiao Shi Urges Exchanges, Cooperation OW1501105294 Beijing XINHUA Domestic Service in Chinese 0732 GMT 15 Jan 94 OW1501105294 Beijing XINHUA Domestic Service Language: Chinese Article Type:BFN [Text] Beijing, 15 Jan (XINHUA) -- Qiao Shi, National People's Congress [NPC] Standing Committee chairman, met here today with Richard Gephardt, majority leader of the U.S. House of Representatives. Qiao Shi expressed the hope that the Chinese NPC and the U.S. Congress would enhance exchanges and cooperation with each other and make joint efforts to promote the healthy growth of Sino-U.S. relations. During the meeting, Qiao Shi extended his warm welcome to Gephardt and his delegation. He said: The November 1993 meeting between Chinese President Jiang Zemin and U.S. President Clinton in Seattle was a new start in bilateral relations. Since their meeting, many U.S. congressmen have visited China. Such visits have helped promote the U.S. Congress's understanding of the situation in various fields of China and have provided opportunities for the two sides to exchange views on issues of common concern. On the issue of the most-favored-nation [MFN] trading status, Qiao said that the MFN treatment is an arrangement of equity and mutual benefit between China and the United States. He emphasized that China opposes linking the MFN treatment with issues that have nothing to do with trade, such as the human rights issue. He said he hoped that the MFN issue would be resolved "once and for all." Qiao Shi said: During the new period, a sound political, economic, and trade relationship between the two countries is in line with the fundamental interests of the two peoples and is conducive to world peace and development. Gephardt said: U.S.-Chinese relations are "most essential" to the two countries and to the rest of the world as well. Dialogue and exchanges would improve U.S.-Chinese ties. The United States hopes that progress will be achieved in bilateral relations in the period to come. The U.S. guests arrived in China on 12 January at the invitation of the Chinese People's Institute of Foreign Affairs. Liu Shuqing, president of the institute, was present at today's meeting.
