FBIS3-52180 "drnes001_n_94006" FBIS-NES-94-001 Document Type:Daily Report 3 Jan 1994 LEBANON Officials, Others React to Israel-Vatican Ties Denunciation From Islamic Groups NC0101182594 Paris AFP in English 1638 GMT 1 Jan 94 NC0101182594 Paris AFP Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Beirut, Jan 1 (AFP) -- Lebanon's pro-Iranian fundamentalist groups on Saturday [1 January] denounced the Israeli-Vatican accord, with one group calling for a boycott of a visit here in May by Pope John Paul II. The Shiite Moslem Hizballah denounced the Holy See's recognition of Israel as a "historic sin against Christ and all humanity. How can a state created in the name of Christ recognize the legality of an entity established by usurpation and injustice?" it asked. Shaykh Subhi al-Tufayli, former Hizballah secretary general and leader of the group's radical wing, said in comments published by the press that a link exists between the pope's visit to Lebanon and recognition of Israel. "This visit becomes a basis for evil and action that does not serve the interests of the Lebanese," he said. Al-Tufayli expressed surprise that "the Vatican speaks of peace when it signs a document recognizing the Zionist entity." The spiritual leader of Hizballah, Shaykh Muhammad Husayn Fadlallah, on Friday also denounced the Israeli-Vatican accord as ignoring the "teachings of Jesus Christ." Shaykh Mahir Hammud, the political director of the Sunni Assembly of Moslem Ulema (religious scholars) which is close to Iran, called on "the free forces" in Lebanon to boycott the pope's visit. He said the accord signed Thursday in Jerusalem between the Vatican and Israel, which calls for diplomatic ties this year, is based on "the principles of the Zionist movement, not those of the Vatican." Lebanese Foreign Minister Faris Buwayz said: "We would have preferred it if Israel's recognition by the Vatican had taken place after the Jewish state complied with the principles of peace decided at the Madrid conference." The Madrid conference in October 1991 launched the Arab-Israeli peace talks. The Vatican-Israel pact should "at least be part of pressure on Israel to execute international resolutions," Buwayz added. Lebanon has repeatedly called for Israel to comply with U.N. Security Council Resolution 425 to withdraw from south Lebanon.
