FBIS4-1687 "drchi064_a_94004" FBIS-CHI-94-064 Daily Report 3 Apr 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS General Trade Official Warns Against Rejection of GATT Bid Trade Official Warns Against Rejection of GATT Bid HK0304065694 Hong Kong AFP in English 0619 GMT 3 April 94 HK0304065694 Hong Kong AFP English BFN [Text] Beijing, April 3 (AFP)--China will only go so far to ensure its re-entry into GATT and will revive import controls should its bid to rejoin the world body be rejected, a senior foreign trade ministry official was quoted as warning Sunday [3 April]. "The bottom line is equal treatment," said the foreign trade ministry's deputy director for international relations, Li Longzhou, who stressed that China was not so desperate that it would pay any price for GATT membership. Li also accused some of China's major trading partners -- especially the United States -- of using the GATT membership issue to extract unreasonable concessions from Beijing. While admitting that a rejection of China's bid would hurt the country's trade expansion and slow the pace of reform, Li said steps could be taken to ensure China's global competitiveness if it were left outside GATT. "A passive return to import substitution (a measure to restrict imports) in parallel with continued investment incentives may actually encourage greater foreign investment (in China) because local production would then be favoured over imports," the CHINA DAILY BUSINESS WEEKLY quoted Li as saying. "The world trade community has a choice between accepting China as an equal trading partner by granting it GATT membership, or competing for access to the Chinese market on a reciprocal basis," he added. Li also slammed the United States for making the renewal in June of China's most favoured nation (MFN) trading status conditional on progress in Beijing's human rights record. "China hopes to obtain unconditional MFN treatment equivalent to that accorded to all other contracting parties by participating in GATT," Li said, adding that by attaching human rights conditions to MFN, Washington was going against the spirit of the world trade body. As a purely economic issue, China's re-entry to GATT "has been complicated by non-economic factors and the negotiation has been delayed for an unwarranted period," Li said. The United States was one of the few member states that did not support early Chinese re- entry to GATT at the 16th session of the GATT Working Party on China held in Geneva next month, Li noted. A founding member of GATT, China withdrew in 1949 after the communists came to power. Li also criticised some trading partners for demanding China eliminate all non-tariff trade barriers "while they themselves maintain quantitative restrictions on thousands of items such as textiles and clothing, agricultural products, steel and footwear." In the case of increased protection against Chinese goods, "China will be forced to reduce imports in order to balance its foreign trade," Li stressed.
