FBIS3-59989 "jptdd001__l94031" JPRS-TDD-94-001-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Narcotics 3 January 1994 NEAR EAST/SOUTH ASIA PAKISTAN Heroin Smuggling Attempt Thwarted 94WD0131D Peshawar MASHRIQ in Urdu 6 Nov 93 p 12 94WD0131D Peshawar MASHRIQ Language: Urdu Article Type:CSO [News Report: ``Effort To Smuggle Heroin in Capsules''] [Text] Peshawar (News Reporter) -- At Peshawar airport the CIA [Crime Investigation Agency] Police foiled an effort by a passenger to smuggle heroin capsules in hidden parts of his body at. The accused was going to Jiddah for Haj pilgrimage. The accused was arrested, and, in the light of his statement, the leader of his gang was also arrested. The two were physically remanded and they were interrogated. The accused revealed the names of their associates in Jiddah. The police informed officials in Saudi Arabia to arrest those people. According to details, Shah Wali Khan, DSP of the CIA of Peshawar, learned that a gang in Peshawar was smuggling drugs under the guise of sending people for Haj. On Thursday night they were planning to smuggle heroin hidden in capsules from the Peshawar airport. The DSP formed a team led by Inspector Ghulam Mohammed Khan and Sub-Inspector Husan Gul. They set up watch outside the airport. During this time the accused, Gila Jan, son of Nuran Jan of Mehmand Agency near New Rampura Gate, Peshawar, entered the airport area in a car. The accused had a ticket for Jiddah, a passport, and a visa. All these papers were confiscated, and the accused was taken to a hospital, where X-rays revealed that he was carrying four capsules filled with heroin in hidden parts of his body. He was given some drug, and the capsules were recovered from his body. These capsules contained 300 grams of heroin. The accused identified Safadder Khan, son of Suhbat Khan, of Nishtarabad, Peshawar, as the leader of his gang. The leader was also arrested. According to the leader, he was paid 40,000 rupees and was asked to send the heroin capsules to a Pakistani in Jiddah. According to the initial statement of the accused, he purchased one kilogram of heroin for 15,000 rupees from the Mehmand Agency. This heroin was contained in six capsules.
