FBIS4-17667 "drsov080_f_94008" FBIS-SOV-94-080 Daily Report 25 Apr 1994 National Affairs Crimea Seen as Potential Center for Reform, War Crimea Seen as Potential Center for Reform, War LD2504170894 Moscow Mayak Radio Network in Russian 1320 GMT 25 Apr 94 LD2504170894 Moscow Mayak Radio Network Russian BFN [Text] There was a press conference today at the Crimean Council of Ministers. Acting Minister of State Affairs Viktor Minin answered questions. He is one of the Russian specialists that have come to the Crimean Government together with Yevgeniy Saburov. The main directions of the government's activities are already outlined. These comprise urgent reforms of the economy. Ukraine, in spite of strained political relations with Crimea, does not hinder these reforms and is ready to help in certain aspects. In any case, the policy of an open economy in Crimea is being set up in accordance with Leonid Kravchuk's decree. For the reforms to be successful it is necessary to have a bilateral Crimean-Ukrainian treaty and a bilateral Crimean-Russian treaty. Second, there must be a favorable political atmosphere. Unfortunately, the balance of political forces on the peninsula is such that the Crimea can be regarded as a hot spot. As Minin said, Crimea could become a center from which reforms start, but it could also become a center from which war starts. He confirmed his fears with the following figures: In 1992 there were 2,500 people from the Ukrainian Armed Forces on the peninsula. In 1994 there were 50,000 people. Their deployment in the region of Sevastopol and other bays leaves one in no doubt of their aims. Meanwhile, it is absolutely essential to Crimea that people not be afraid to come, because the summer resort season, according to Minin, is our main source of income. There were also questions concerning the status of Sevastopol at the press conference. Minin said that every fourth inhabitant of that city is engaged in supporting the Black Sea Fleet. If the fleet is taken out of Sevastopol, this might mean a new deportation. Previous attempts to settle the Sevastopol problem have strained the situation even more.
