FBIS4-21143 "jptdd016__l94022" JPRS-TDD-94-016-L JPRS Narcotics Reaction to the 1994 U.S. State Department International Narcotics Control Strategy Report 6 April 1994 LATIN AMERICA PANAMA Presidential Candidate Carles Rejects Report Presidential Candidate Carles Rejects Report PA0704012494 Panama City Circuito RPC Television Network in Spanish 2300 GMT 6 Apr 94 PA0704012494 Panama City Circuito RPC Television Network Spanish BFN [From the "The RPC Television News" newscast] [Text] Presidential candidate Ruben Dario Carles rejected accusations by some U.S. sectors linking Panama to international money laundering. According to Carles, Panamanians cannot accept everything that comes from the United States. A report issued by the U.S. assistant [secretary] of state for inter-American affairs states that Panama is one of the countries that offers the least cooperation in controlling drug trafficking and money laundering. Panamanian authorities have staunchly rejected this position. Presidential Candidate Ruben Dario Carles, who describes himself as a friend of the United States, also rejected the allegations. [Begin Carles recording] I agree with the position taken by Foreign Affairs Minister Jose Raul Mulino. Panama is cooperating in the counternarcotics effort. The enormous quantities of drugs seized is one indication that things are like they used to be, when trafficking was openly protected by Panamanian authorities. [end recording] According to Carles, there are some isolated cases, but they are not enough to warrant the accusations being made against Panama. [Begin Carles recording] We can not accept everything the Americans ask or demand of us. There are interests here in Panama that must also be defended, like the banking center. Of course money laundering is a crime, but it originates in the United States, so let us both struggle against it. They signed the Mutual Legal Assistance Treaty, which Panama has already ratified but the United States has not. [end recording]
