FBIS3-19961 "drweu058__a94007" FBIS-WEU-94-058-A Document Type:Daily Report 25 March 1994 ANNEX Inter-European Affairs EU-Ukraine Sign Partnership Agreement BR2303161594 Brussels BELGA in Dutch 1408 GMT 23 Mar 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY BR2303161594 Brussels BELGA Language: Dutch Article Type:BFN [Article signed CET: "European Union Signs Partnership Agreement With Ukraine"; as released by Brussels BELGA Database] [Text] Brussels, 23 Mar (BELGA) -- On Wednesday [23 March], the European Union (EU) and Ukraine signed a "partnership agreement." Ukraine is the first country belonging to the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) with which the EU has concluded such an agreement. The partnership agreement could grow into a free trade zone between the EU and Ukraine. In 1998 both parties to the agreement will examine whether Ukraine has made sufficient progress in the direction of a market economy for negotiations on a free trade agreement to begin. Our dream and our objective remains to join the EU, Ukrainian Foreign Minister Anatoliy Zlenko said. Ukraine will launch its economic reforms as soon as possible. This year, 30,000 large and small companies will be privatized, Zlenko noted. In the partnership agreement, both parties granted each other most favored nation status. That means that they will award each other all the trade benefits that they offer other countries. The agreement provides for economic cooperation in highly divergent areas, such as industry, investment, public procurement contracts, scientific research, intellectual property, energy, the environment, transport, telecommunications, financial services, regional policy, and social cooperation. In the introduction to the agreement it is expressly stated that democracy, human rights, and a market economy are the essential preconditions for cooperation. The EU is negotiating a similar agreement with Russia. We are making good progress, but several problems still have to be ironed out, European Commissioner Sir Leon Brittan said .
