FBIS3-28820 "dreas030__a94007" FBIS-EAS-94-030-A Document Type:Daily Report 14 February 1994 ANNEX Japan Clinton's `Dissatisfaction' With Tax Plan Noted OW1402085494 Tokyo SANKEI SHIMBUN in Japanese 13 Feb 94 Morning Edition p 4--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY OW1402085494 Tokyo SANKEI SHIMBUN Language: Japanese Article Type:BFN [Unattributed article: "U.S. Lacks Understanding of Japan's Economic Pump-Priming Package"] [Text] It has been reported that U.S. President Bill Clinton expressed dissatisfaction with Japan's economic stimulus package at the Japanese-U.S. summit talks, which ended unsuccessfully. In refuting this, the Ministry of Finance [MOF] maintains, "It appears that the United States does not understand the package well because of an inadequate analysis of its details" (as stated by an International Finance Bureau source). The President expressed his dissatisfaction to Prime Minister Hosokawa at the summit talks, saying: "The package fails to meet the accord reached at the framework talks held last July. We agreed that the `trade deficit will be reduced to a very remarkable extent.'" Touching on the income tax cut in particular, which amounts to 6 trillion yen, President Clinton pointed out, "I am concerned that people will put the money they get from the tax cut into their savings accounts if the tax cut plan is meant to continue for only one year." Concerning the President's remarks, the MOF observes that Clinton's dissatisfaction lies in the fact that in its appearance, the total amount of the final income tax cut dropped to "6 trillion yen for a one-year period" while Prime Minister Hosokawa originally made a commitment of "18 trillion yen for a three-year period" when he announced his concept on introducing the national welfare tax. The MOF maintains: "The concept concerning the national welfare tax is based on a tax increase after three years. However, the current tax cut is based on the issuing of deficit-covering bonds only, and no decisions have been made on future plans. In this connection, the current tax cut can be said to be closer to the U.S. request for a tax cut by issuing deficit-covering bonds." Thus, the MOF source explains that the President's dissatisfaction has resulted from his insufficient understanding of the details of the tax cut plan.
