FBIS3-58327 "drweu008_h_94002" FBIS-WEU-94-008 Document Type:Daily Report 12 Jan 1994 GERMANY Iran's Larijani Meets Foreign Affairs Officials LD1101192294 Tehran IRNA in English 1820 GMT 11 Jan 94 LD1101192294 Tehran IRNA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Bonn, Jan. 11, IRNA -- An Iranian parliamentary delegation led by deputy chief of the Majles Foreign Policy Commission, Mohammad Javad Larijani, arrived in Cologne last night and was welcomed by German Parliamentarian Christoph Matschie. Head of the Foreign Policy Commission of the German Parliament, Hans Stercken, in a meeting with Larijani said that Iran and Germany would further cooperate in regional issues and added that Bonn attaches importance to the recent visit to Tehran of a team of German parliamentarians including. [sentence as received] Stercken said his country is willing to extend supervisory assistance to countries keen on privatization programmes. He hailed the views shared by the two countries on Karabakh conflict as the best key to resolve the Azerbaijan-Armenian conflict. Larijani said Iran was willing to have constructive cooperation with Germany during Iran's second Five-Year Development Plan (to start in March). Iran could be a reliable partner for Germany and Europe, he hoped. Larijani said Iran was ready to cooperate with Germany and the European Union (EU) for disarmament of nuclear and chemical weapons of mass destruction in the entire region. The West alleges arms buildup in Iran, whereas the fact is, Western arms sale to Persian Gulf states are worth twice as much as Iran's oil revenues in the past year, he noted. Larijani had a separate meeting with German Deputy Foreign Minister Dieter Kastrup, with whom he exchanged views on bilateral relations, peace in the Middle East, Central Asia, the Persian Gulf and developments in the former Soviet republics. Kastrup referred to expansion of Tehran-Bonn relations, and emphasized the important role of the Islamic Republic of Iran in regional peace, security and stability. Larijani replied that the Islamic Republic of Iran would continue to assist in peace and security efforts in the region and the West should welcome Iran's capability in this regard. Iran's interests lie in peaceful joint cooperation in the region, he said, and that the Islamic Republic was ready to implement a regional cooperation system in the Persian Gulf to provide all the international guarantees and remove suspicions and anxieties.
