FBIS3-17280 "drsov057_d_94001" FBIS-SOV-94-057 Document Type:Daily Report 22 Mar 1994 Regional Affairs Filatov on Talks With Chechen Official LD2203204794 Moscow INTERFAX in English 1629 GMT 22 Mar 94 LD2203204794 Moscow INTERFAX Language: English Article Type:BFN [From the "Presidential Bulletin" feature: by Nikolay Zherebtsov and Andrey Petrovsky] [Text] The head of the Russian presidential administration Sergey Filatov has told Interfax that his meeting late on Monday with the Chechen State Secretary Aslanbek Akbulatov helped to finalize the stand of Groznyy that is suggesting its own version of the friendship and cooperation treaty with Russia. Filatov thinks Moscow should not hurry with the meeting of the presidents of the two sides before the package of documents Boris Yeltsin and Dzhokhar Dudayev are to discuss is fully ready. IF Note: Earlier a high-ranking source in the administration of the Russian president claimed that serious talks with Chechnya would be held, if the leadership of the republic in the Northern Caucasus fulfilled two conditions put forward by Moscow: stopped accusing Russia of imperial ambitions and used the treaty signed with Tataria [Tatar Republic] on the separation of powers as the basis for the Moscow meeting. Filatov said he informed Akbulatov about the results of the consultations between the speaker of the State Duma Ivan Rybkin and the Minister for Nationalities and Regional Policy Sergey Shakhray based on the assumption that relations with Chechnya will become a subject of parliamentary hearings. Earlier the chairman of the Council of the Federation Vladimir Shumeyko stressed that the upper house would discuss the issue no matter whether the lower house deals with it or not. "The council should represent all members of the Federation. It is impossible to say that Chechnya is not a member of the Russian Federation because there have been no laws on its separation", Shumeyko said. The only expression of the attitude of the federal authorities to Chechnya, according to him, is a resolution passed by the Supreme Soviet or the Congress of People's Deputies invalidating the results of presidential elections in Chechnya. The council can discuss the resolution and raise the question of abolishing it and recognizing the election results, Shumeyko said. Meanwhile, the chairman of the Chechen parliament Akhyad Idigov has said in an interview with Interfax in Groznyy that the summit is necessary for stabilizing bilateral relations. Commenting on the Moscow visit by the Chechen state secretary Idigov said that the talks between Russia and Chechnya are a continuation of the constructive work in which both sides are interested. "Chechnya has not stopped active efforts to continue the process of negotiations with the Russian leadership because we are interested in normalizing both political and economic ties with Russia", Idigov said. On the political situation in Chechnya Idigov said it is relatively stable even considering the relations between different political forces. He claimed that the economic situation has improved considerably. "All the rest will depend on what our relations with Russia are going to be like", Idigov concluded.
