FBIS3-5950 "dreas049_c_94013" FBIS-EAS-94-049 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Mar 1994 North Korea Japan Urged To Codify `Non-Nuclear Principles' SK1203051294 Pyongyang KCNA in English 0459 GMT 12 Mar 94 SK1203051294 Pyongyang KCNA Language: English Article Type:BFN ["Japan Must Codify `Three Non-Nuclear Principles' and Faithfully Observe Them, NODONG SINMUN" -- KCNA headline] [Text] Pyongyang, March 12 (KCNA) -- If it is true that Japan does not pursue nuclear armament, it must codify the "three non-nuclear principles" and faithfully observe them, give up the projected stockpile of excessive plutonium and clearly declare its will for denuclearization, urges NODONG SINMUN today. Japanese Foreign Minister Tsutomu Hata in his address at the Diet some time ago described foreign press reports about Japan's pursuit of nuclear armament as "groundless," saying that Japan has "three non-nuclear principles" banning the manufacture, possession and introduction of nuclear weapons. And Morihiro Hosokawa stated that Japan would keep to the "three non-nuclear principles." The news analyst of the paper dismisses their assertions as verbal pyrotechnics to get out of the tight corner in which Japan faces worldwide criticism as a nuclear culprit. The commentary says: As for the "three non-nuclear principles" which the Japanese Government uses as an evidence for its "nuclear uprightness," they are nominal as they are not codified and specify no penalty on their violations. Never have the "three non-nuclear principles" been observed since they were laid down by the Japanese Government in the 1960s. U.S. warships and planes loaded with nuclear weapons frequent Japanese sea ports and airports, as if they were their own. Japan, however, has never inspected them, nor has the conversion of the Japanese territory into a nuclear base of the United States been raised as a problem. The "three non-nuclear principles" are used today as a smokescreen to conceal Japan's nuclear armament. The Japanese Government is putting up the signboard of "three non-nuclear principles" in an effort to relieve the Japanese people of their concern over nuclear armament at home and make Japan appear a "non-nuclear peace state" externally. Behind the curtain of these "principles" Japan as stockpiling a colossal amount of plutonium to rank itself among the nuclear powers. It has finished preparations for the manufacture of nuclear weapons and developed by itself and launched a space rocket capable of carrying nuclear warheads. Japan plans to dispatch its Armed Forces to wide areas of the world and is accelerating its nuclear armament and its conversion into a military power to realise its dominationist ambition with strength. If the Japanese authorities resort to double-dealing tactics, letting out a string of poor excuses, they will face a bitterer criticism from the world people.
