FBIS3-21585 "jptac002__l94025" JPRS-TAC-94-002-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Arms Control 1 March 1994 CENTRAL EURASIA RUSSIA Major Efforts to Develop Advanced Weaponry LD0103200594 London PRESS ASSOCIATION in English 1713 GMT 1 Mar 94 LD0103200594 London PRESS ASSOCIATION Language: English Article Type:BFN [Report by Charles Miller, PRESS ASSOCIATION Defence Correspondent] [Text] Russia is forging ahead with large-scale research into the development of high-tech weapons despite the nation's economic crisis. Many of the country's top scientists are employed on a wide range of major arms projects, not just to boost domestic defence but to capture lucrative overseas sales. And British and Western experts would be anxious to get their hands on top-secret scientific data. "Weapons research is continuing in all areas -- the range is extensive," said Robert Hall, editor of Jane's Intelligence Review. The Russians have a unique approach to many scientific problems because of the restrictions they faced during the Cold War. Lack of access to the West's computer revolution left them reliant on such areas as theoretical mathematics. And they became great innovative "lateral thinkers" to overcome some of the scientific hurdles they faced. Consequently their expertise in areas such as electromagnetic power, aerodynamics, underwater propulsion, and laser, microwave and other "beam" technology often rivals that of the West and sometimes exceeds it. The Russians have already demonstrated they can generate 10 times the electromagnetic energy the United States has achieved and with much smaller equipment. This could be used in a variety of weapons, such as tank guns and an air "bomb" that could disable all electronics over a wide area. There is also speculation that the Russians have developed an ultra-quiet submarine propulsion system that uses electromagnetic forces to draw in water through a duct and squirt it out the stern. Some of their electronic systems have confused Western experts, including the Zaslon radar fitted to MiG-31 aircraft. Leading electronics expert Mike Witt said: "This system puzzled Western experts when it was unveiled in 1991 because it appeared to be able to see backwards." Russian scientists are also working on a system known as Infra- Red Search and Track that detects aircraft by their heat and, therefore, overcomes so-called "Stealth" technology. Britain is developing a similar system for the four-nation Eurofighter project and scientists would be very keen to establish how the Russian system works. Russia is making significant progress in missile technology and last year unveiled its equivalent of the US Patriot anti-missile system known as the S300V. During a demonstration at Abu Dhabi four missiles were fired and successfully destroyed targets in the air almost 20 miles away. It is said to be able to track 24 targets simultaneously and then prioritise the targets before firing four missiles from two launchers. Advanced work is being carried out to develop affordable anti- aircraft missiles such as the new shoulder-launched Igla which should bring in desperately needed hard currency from sales abroad.
