FBIS3-7617 "dreas061_c_94015" FBIS-EAS-94-061 Document Type:Daily Report 30 Mar 1994 North Korea Expressions of Support Received From Abroad From Madagascar, Uganda, Ghana SK3003044694 Pyongyang KCNA in English 0431 GMT 30 Mar 94 SK3003044694 Pyongyang KCNA Language: English Article Type:BFN ["Military Threat to and Pressure on DPRK Condemned" -- KCNA headline] [Text] Pyongyang, March 30 (KCNA) -- Political parties and organizations of different countries have expressed support to the March 21 statement of a DPRK Foreign Ministry spokesman as regards the fact that the United States is aggravating the situation of the Korean peninsula after breaking off the DPRK-U.S. talks. The Party of the Congress for the Independence, the Militant Party for the Realization of Equality and nine other political parties of Madagascar published a joint statement on March 23. Noting that the United States is leading the situation of the Korean peninsula to the extreme pitch of strain after reversing the agreed conclusions reached at the DPRK-U.S. contact in New York, the statement said: "The step taken by the DPRK to cope with this is a just one for national sovereignty and security." Eight organizations of Uganda including the Uganda-DPRK Friendship Association, the Ugandan National Committee for the Study of the Chuche Idea and the Teachers' Association of Uganda said in a joint statement on March 22: "The United States has set unreasonable preconditions alleging that the inspection by the International Atomic Energy Agency was unsatisfactory. This was motivated by their insidious political aim to stifle socialist Korea by intentionally aggravating the situation." The Ghana-DPRK Friendship Association said in a statement on March 22: "We urge the United States to stop its threat and row of `sanctions' against the DPRK and sincerely discharge its obligation for a package solution to the nuclear issue and the IAEA secretariat to take a fair stand, not following the will of a big power." Twenty-three political parties and organizations of Peru including the Mariateguista United Party and the General Confederation of Workers in a joint statement denounced the United States for reversing the agreed conclusions reached at the DPRK-U.S. contact in New York and scheming to stage the "Team Spirit" joint military exercises and deploy "Patriot" missiles in South Korea. The statement called upon political parties, organizations and public figures throughout the world to strengthen solidarity with the Korean people in the efforts for peace and reunification.
