FBIS3-11988 "drlat060_m_94004" FBIS-LAT-94-060 Document Type:Daily Report 24 Mar 1994 Brazil Official Believes Explanations Provided to U.S. PY2803130794 Sao Paulo GAZETA MERCANTIL in Portuguese 24 Mar 94 p 11 PY2803130794 Sao Paulo GAZETA MERCANTIL Language: Portuguese Article Type:BFN [Article by Maria Helena Tachinardi; quotation marks as published] [Text] The Science and Technology Ministry believes the Brazilian Government already has given its U.S. counterpart the required explanations about the national laws in the field of informatics and telecommunications. It is now U.S. Secretary of Commerce Ron Brown's turn to comment on the issue. A source linked to this newspaper reported that on 16 February Brown sent Science and Technology Minister Jose Israel Vargas a letter complaining about the difficulties U.S. companies had competing in the Brazilian market. The letters exchanged between Brown and Vargas do not cite the names of the enterprises allegedly harmed, but one of the minister's advisers pointed out that, among the largest ones, the only one that does not have a manufacturing plant in Brazil is AT&T. He added that by not having plants in the country or producing anything locally, AT&T might be at a disadvantage in relation to competitors who are manufacturing their products in Brazil such as Ericsson and NEC. The Science and Technology Ministry source said: "No country in the world has policies against industrialization." He said that referring to the fact that in an official bidding between two companies offering the same price, the company producing in the country is always the one chosen. On 23 March, the boards of U.S. AT&T and its local branch in Brazil met former Communications Minister Hugo Napoleao (Liberal Front Party-Piaui). Eduardo Calmon Costa, vice president and director of governmental and institutional relations for Brazil, said he had the opportunity to exchange ideas about privatization and ways to increase competitiveness in the telecommunications area. In his letter dated 11 March, Vargas points out that "more recently, AT&T, Corning, Sprint, Hughes, Continental, American Note Bank (Thomas de la Rue), Motorola, and Texas Instruments, just to cite a few, have been intensely supplying Brazil with telecommunications equipment." The science and technology minister said: "The Brazilian telecommunications sector is open to foreign participation and everything depends only on the companies' competitive skill. In the area of informatics, IBM, Unisys, Allen-Bradley and several other subsidiaries of U.S. companies have been establishing themselves in Brazil in the last decades and been benefiting from tax exemptions. U.S. telecommunications companies should not have any difficulty in facing these fair and modern rules, which are being complied with by an impressive number of multinational companies specializing in the field."
