FBIS4-19952 "drweu079cc_94001" FBIS-WEU-94-079 Daily Report 22 Apr 1994 INTER-EUROPEAN AFFAIRS Belgium, France To Propose WEU `Intervention Force' Belgium, France To Propose WEU `Intervention Force' BR2204121294 Groot-Bijgaarden DE STANDAARD in Dutch 22 Apr 94 p 3 BR2204121294 Groot-Bijgaarden DE STANDAARD Dutch BFN [Unattributed report: "Delcroix Wants European `Intervention Force'"] [Excerpt] Brussels -- Federal Defense Minister Leo Delcroix wants a "flexible and smooth operational system of cooperation between European armies to resolve conflicts." He avoided the term "intervention force." Delcroix proposed the idea yesterday during a rush visit to his French counterpart Francois Leotard in Paris. On 9 May, both ministers will defend the proposal at a meeting of the Western European Union (WEU) in Luxembourg. Yesterday, Delcroix thanked his French counterpart and the French Army for the good cooperation during operation "Silver Back" in Rwanda. "This cooperation was quickly set up on site and led to the almost perfect running of the evacuation operation in Rwanda. That was an 18 carat performance. These initiatives will surely be rewarded in coming weeks." Delcroix and Leotard also learned lessons from the events in Rwanda. "An important question came up during our meeting: How do we resolve similar problems in countries where we are not so well equipped and where there are not so many Belgians? I put forward the idea of a flexible, smooth operational system of military cooperation. I would not call this an intervention force since our country does not have the resources to keep a lot of people abroad on a permanent basis." "Nor do we want laborious UN procedures. In order to avoid delays and bureaucratic confusion, we must have just a few people come together to make decisions. My colleague, Mr. Leotard, was delighted with the proposal." As regards the withdrawal of the intervention force from Kenya, he warned against being too hasty. "We must hasten slowly. The intervention force cannot camp out for weeks, but there is still a lot of equipment to be brought back. That demands a lot of logistical work. In addition, we want to see if everything is running smoothly in the surrounding area." [passage omitted]
