FBIS3-29488 "dreas034_a_94003" FBIS-EAS-94-034 Document Type:Daily Report 18 February 1994 NORTHEAST ASIA Japan Clinton Criticism of Officials `Not Appropriate' OW1802054794 Tokyo NHK General Television Network in Japanese 0300 GMT 18 Feb 94 OW1802054794 Tokyo NHK General Television Network Language: Japanese Article Type:BFN [Announcer-read report over video; from "NHK News" program] [Excerpts] In the House of Representatives' Budget Committee meeting that opened today, 18 February, Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa spoke about moves in the United States to take sanctions against Japan, and said the government is hurrying to prepare Japan's measures to open up its market -- including those to ensure improved transparency in procedures for government procurement and to step up deregulation. [passage omitted on a Dietman's question] [Begin Hosokawa recording] In the areas of improving transparancy in procedures on insurance and government procurement, cooperation of Japanese and U.S. industries in automobiles, deregulation -- of which you too just said easygoing action will not be accepted -- or promoting imports and investments in Japan, I think we must be positive in all our actions. [end recording] Masahiro Koga of Shinseito [Japan Renewal Party] then asked him about U.S. President Bill Clinton's criticism of Japan's economy-related government offices in reference to the failure of the Japan-U.S. economic consultations. The President cited the names of the government offices in making the criticism. In reply to the question, Prime Minister Hosokawa said the recent negotiations were not led by government officials, and the officials had to endure a lot during the negotiations. Setting numerical targets would lead to managed trade, and, hence, goes against the national interests of Japan. It is only natural that the people oppose it, whether they be politicians or bureaucrats. The prime minister thus said such criticism is not appropriate. [passage on remarks by others present at the meeting omitted]
