FBIS4-8756 "dreeu074_i_94029" FBIS-EEU-94-074 Daily Report 17 Apr 1994 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA Events in Gorazde -- 17 April Events in Gorazde -- 17 April Krajisnik Says Muslims Downed Plane LD1704172294 Belgrade TANJUG in English 1712 GMT 17 Apr 94 LD1704172294 Belgrade TANJUG English BFN [Text] Belgrade, April 17 (TANJUG) -- Bosnian Serb Parliamentary Speaker Momcilo Krajisnik said on Sunday Serbs insisted that a Gorazde ceasefire must be part of a general ceasefire for all of Bosnia-Herzegovina and must entail the lifting of U.N. sanctions against Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro). Speaking for the local radio in Kragujevac, Serbia, Krajisnik said international mediators were insisting on a separate solution for the Moslem enclave of Gorazde in eastern Bosnia, but the Serb side would not agree to any partial arrangements but only to a general cessation of hostilities in all of Bosnia-Herzegovina. Krajisnik said that Russian envoy Vitaliy Churkin and U.N. special envoy Yasushi Akashi had informed the Serb side that the Moslems wished to open talks on the problem, which was probably a serious offer. He added however that similar agreements reached in the past had not been honoured. Commenting on the downing of a British NATO plane over Gorazde, Krajisnik said: "The Serbs meant to down (NATO) planes only if they flew over their territory" which was not the case on Saturday, which means that the Serbs had not fired fire at the British plane which any investigation would show [sentence as received]. The British aircraft fell in Moslem-controlled territory. The Bosnian Serb command said it had intercepted a message from the Moslems in Gorazde to the Moslem command in Sarajevo saying that they had downed the plane and were holding the pilot who had bailed out. The Bosnian Serb command has repeatedly warned that the Moslems in Gorazde, frustrated by the imminent defeat of their late March offensive on the surrounding Serb territories, might go so far as to down NATO planes to provoke a NATO military intervention against Bosnian Serbs.
