FBIS3-11264 "drlat054_a_94013" FBIS-LAT-94-054 Document Type:Daily Report 18 Mar 1994 CARIBBEAN Cuba U.S. Congress Debate on Blockade Reported Havana Radio Notes Debate FL1803160194 Havana Radio Progreso Network in Spanish 1200 GMT 18 Mar 94 FL1803160194 Havana Radio Progreso Network Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Text] Many international news agencies have reported from Washington that scores of influential political figures participated on 17 March in a heated debate at the U.S. Congress on the appropriateness of the United States' maintaining the blockade against Cuba, an anachronism in the postwar era. The law on free trade with Cuba, a proposal submitted by New York Democratic Party Representative Charles Rangel, with the support of most black and Hispanic congressmen, was the subject that prompted fiery deliberations at a House of Representatives Ways and Means subcommittee. The Spanish television station Univision last night reported that this subject prompted one of the most bitter debates with conflicting arguments expressed by supporters and opponents of the blockade. It is time to put an end to the Cold War because 34 years of blockade against Cuba have not yielded the expected results, Rangel said, defending free trade among nations. His stance was also supported by California Democratic Party Representative Esteban Torres, who termed sanctions against Havana as ineffective and anachronistic. The following congressmen also supported this stance: Jose Serrano from New York, Bernard Sanders from Vermont, and politicians such as Reverend Jesse Jackson and other supporters of an end to the blockade who were also present at the session at the Capitol. Grouped on the opposite side were figures of the anti-Cuban extreme right such as Robert Torricelli from New Jersey, Lincoln Diaz-Balart and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen from Florida, and Jorge Mas Canosa, head of the ultraconservative Cuban-American National Foundation. Officials from the Department of State who also support the continuation of the blockade were also present at the 17 March session.
