FBIS3-25393 "drafr033_e_94008" FBIS-AFR-94-033 Document Type:Daily Report 17 Feb 1994 WEST AFRICA Senegal Demonstration Against Devaluation Turns Violent AB1602211994 Paris AFP in French 2018 GMT 16 Feb 94 AB1602211994 Paris AFP Language: French Article Type:BFN [Text] Dakar, 16 Feb (AFP) -- In Dakar today, the first demonstration against the devaluation of the CFA franc, which was organized by the opposition, turned into a riot and resulted in one dead and dozens wounded, including security officials, according to casualty reports from hospital sources. Hundreds of demonstrators, mostly young people, swarmed into the large avenues of Dakar after a public meeting organized by five political parties (including the main opposition party, the Senegalese Democratic Party of Abdoulaye Wade) to denounce the high cost of living after the devaluation of the CFA franc by 50 percent last January. On their route, they destroyed shops, and burned or destroyed vehicles and fuel stations, chanting slogans hostile to President Abdou Diouf. Policemen who tried to intervene were roughed up. According to witnesses, some were seriously wounded. Despite intervention by members of the security forces, who used tear gas in dispersing them, the demonstrators suceeded in reaching the surroundings of the Presidential Palace. They then took the adjacent streets, destroying several parked vehicles. Equally violent demonstrations took place almost at the same time in several localities in the suburb of Dakar, where witnesses reported extensive damage. These demonstrations came in the month of Ramadan, on the opening day of salary negotiations between the government and trade unions. Yesterday, demonstrators organized by the opposition were dispersed by security forces, who arrested about 10 people. Early this evening, security measures were reinforced at Plateau, an administrative and business district of Dakar, as the demonstrators returned to their respective popular districts. [At 2109 GMT on 16 February, AFP adds: "Five persons -- four members of the security forces and one civilian -- were killed during a violent demonstration today in Dakar, according to an official casualty report. In a communique issued this evening, the Senegalese Government `strongly condemned these acts of vandalism which cannot in any way destabilize the institutions.' It affirmed that those responsible for these acts will be hunted down, arrested, and punished according to the law"]
