FBIS4-23812 "drafr116_c_94015" FBIS-AFR-94-116 Daily Report 15 Jun 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA ANC To Restructure To Have More Control Over MPs ANC To Restructure To Have More Control Over MPs MB1506141994 Johannesburg BUSINESS DAY in English 15 Jun 94 p 2 MB1506141994 Johannesburg BUSINESS DAY English BFN [By David Greybe] [Text] Cape Town -- The ANC national working committee decided yesterday to go ahead with a major phased restructuring of the party aimed at gaining more effective party control over members in government. The committee also agreed to introduce, before next week's mini-session of Parliament, a type of constituency system to ensure MPs and senators were put to work effectively, ANC secretary-general Cyril Ramaphosa said afterwards. The committee, which met in Johannesburg, also set up a subcommittee to investigate the salary structures of MPs, senators and Ministers after complaints from ANC local and provincial structures that these salaries were too big. Ramaphosa said the ANC's restructuring was aimed at "streamlining the party structures to ensure effective co-ordination between what happens in Parliament, in government and in the organisation". He declined to disclose further details at this stage, except to say the restructuring would take place in stages. He described the plan as "historic and ground-breaking". The next stage would be for the ANC regions to discuss the proposal before it was debated again. Ramaphosa said the salary sub-committee would analyse the report of the Melamet Committee on Remuneration of Politicians, which was released in April and led to the row within the ANC. The subcommittee would compare the salary structures under the previous government and the new ones. The Melamet committee recommended that MPs earn a basic salary before tax of R193,200 [rand] while Ministers earn R470,400 before tax. The ANC parliament caucus decided two weeks ago that MPs, senators, Deputy Ministers and Ministers would contribute between R750 and R2,000 a month to the party earning the ANC more than R260,000 a month. ANC officials said earlier that they realised the danger of ordinary MPs not having much work to do and seemingly being left out in the cold on major decision-making. The more than 300 ANC MPs and senators would be expected to represent all voters in their area and not just their party's supporters. The ANC constituencies -- the old system of constituencies fell away when negotiators agreed to implement proportional representation -- were expected to be broadly based on SA's magisterial boundaries.
