FBIS3-37201 "drsov031_a_94006" FBIS-SOV-94-031 Document Type:Daily Report 15 Feb 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Yeltsin Recounts Talks LD1502132494 Moscow Ostankino Television First Channel Network in Russian 1200 GMT 15 Feb 94 LD1502132494 Moscow Ostankino Television First Channel Network Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [From the "Novosti" newscast] [Excerpts] Official negotiations between Russia and Great Britain ended in the Kremlin a few minutes ago. The documents signed at them are a mutual acknowledgement of the fact that the Russian Federation and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland are not enemies. This was said in the official joint statement by the president of the Russian Federation and the Prime Minister of Great Britain. [Correspondent Sergey Suntsov] The official visit to Moscow of the British Prime Minister John Major began today. [passage omitted] A joint statement was signed following the talks. It says that the two leaders will give necessary instructions on mutual non-targeting of strategic nuclear missiles, to be accomplished not later than 30 May 1994. Answering questions, Boris Yeltsin and John Major praised the state of bilateral relations. The British premier said he supports the Russian reforms and observed that cooperation is developing in political, trade, and military spheres. The situation in the former Yugoslavia was also discussed during the talks. [Begin Yeltsin recording] I must say that our positions generally coincide. They coincide in the main thing - that is that heavy equipment around Sarajevo should be handed over to the UN forces, and so the shelling there will stop. Second - both the Serbs and the Muslims should be forced, by way of negotiations, to sit down at the negotiation table and resolve the issue by a peaceful political way and stop the war in Yugoslavia. Some are trying to resolve the Bosnian issue without Russia's participation. I would like to stress that this will fail, we will not allow it. Of course Russia will participate actively both in the negotiations and in the peaceful solution to the tragic events in Yugoslavia. I am happy that Mr. Major is supportive of our view. [end recording]
