FBIS4-14810 "drsov064_a_94010" FBIS-SOV-94-064 Daily Report 1 Apr 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Grachev on Partnership for Peace, NATO Integration Grachev on Partnership for Peace, NATO Integration LD0104153594 Moscow INTERFAX in English 1333 GMT 1 Apr 94 LD0104153594 Moscow INTERFAX English BFN [Text] Russia's Defense Ministry is well aware of the fact that the Partnership for Peace program is one of the concrete demonstrations of NATO strategy aimed at the alliance's adaptation towards the modern geopolitical realities, Russian Defense Minister Army General Pavel Grachev declared during his meeting with cultural figures on Friday. Having qualified the geopolitical and military-strategic situation as unfavorable for Russia, Grachev pointed out that if the Russian Federation abstains from joining this program it "will lose the initiative and will end up in self-isolation." "Today Russia strives to receive a status which is adequate to its weight and role including partnership with NATO and the United States," said Grachev. At the same time he underlined that the Russian Federation "would not restrict its activity within the framework proposed to it but would focus its attention on further development of bilateral relations with NATO's leading members." According to Grachev, "nobody questions Russia's integration into NATO's military structures, we see the need in cooperation and integration with NATO for the sake of peace in Europe and in the whole world." As Grachev indicated, under the present situation strategic nuclear forces are the real guarantor of Russia's security. "We give priority to the development of these forces given this fact," said Grachev. In his words, taking into consideration the country's economic opportunities the Defense Ministry does its utmost to make the troop reduction process go smoothly. "There is no need to maintain a 4-5 Mn strong army but we cannot cut it down to 1.9 Mn people under any conditions either," noted Grachev. The Defense Ministry has prepared proposals to make more concrete and to develop new decrees. It primarily concerns changes and supplements to the decrees on defense, military duty and military service, on the status of the servicemen, and on pensions. The ministry also intends to develop new decrees on military state, military militia, and on military courts. As Grachev declared, recently "we managed to lower the sharpness of military discipline." Compared with 1992 the total amount of crimes in 1993 reduced by one fourth, there were 17 percent less crimes related to arms and ammunitions robbery, the number of crimes connected with unauthorized relations has reduced by 22.3 percent. Nevertheless, the problem of servicemen's death as a result of suicides still remains pressing.
