FBIS4-13568 "drnes077_r_94003" FBIS-NES-94-077 Daily Report 19 Apr 1994 India Ukraine's Zlenko Meets Officials, Signs Accords Ukraine's Zlenko Meets Officials, Signs Accords BK2004015194 Delhi ISI Diplomatic Information Service in English 1429 GMT 19 Apr 94 BK2004015194 Delhi ISI Diplomatic Information Service English BFN [Statement by unidentified spokesperson] [Text] New Delhi, 19 April--The visiting foreign minister of Ukraine, H.E. [His Excellency] Mr. Anatoliy M. Zlenko, called on external affairs minister today. Subsequently both the ministers led their delegations in official talks. In his meeting with Mr. Zlenko, Shri Dinesh Singh, while welcoming Mr. Zlenko, noted that both countries have engaged in regular dialogue at different levels on a variety of bilateral and multilateral issues. He said that India attached great importance to its relations with Ukraine, and recalled the visit of President Kravchuk to India in March, 1992, which was an important event in our relations. He also recalled the visit of the President of India to Ukraine in June, 1993. Both sides expressed their satisfaction at the active nature of relations, especially in the economic sphere. Highlights of this cooperation in a concrete sense were: Inauguration of direct Air Ukraine flights between Delhi and Kiev, progress towards a civil aviation agreement, exchange of delegations in the area of science and technology, and so on. Shri Dinesh Singh also mentioned the far-reaching process of economic liberalisation taking place in India and offered to share our experience in this area. The visiting minister gave an account of recent developments in Ukraine and also underlined the importance that his country attached to developing relations with India in as many spheres as possible. At the delegation-level talks, both sides discussed various specific aspects of bilateral cooperation, including the need to have regular consultations. Following the talks, three agreements were signed. These were: A protocol on consultations between the foreign ministries; an agreement on setting up of a joint commission between the two countries; and an economic and technical cooperation agreement.
