FBIS4-33050 "drlat105_t_94009" FBIS-LAT-94-105 Daily Report 29 May 1994 Venezuela Commissioner Roosen on Dollar, Bank Subsidies Commissioner Roosen on Dollar, Bank Subsidies PA3105161094 Caracas Union Radio Network in Spanish 0200 GMT 29 May 94 PA3105161094 Caracas Union Radio Network Spanish BFN [From the "Union Radio News" newscast] [Text] Gustavo Roosen, presidential commissioner for reform of the financial system, met with President Rafael Caldera, Central Bank President Antonio Casas, Deputy Finance Minister Luis Javier Grisanti, and Andres Caldera, minister of the Secretariat Presidency, at Miraflores Palace on 28 May. They analyzed the aspects of sales of foreign currency in view of the dollar's gradual decline in relation to the bolivar. Roosen said the reduction in the price of U.S. currency will establish a fair rate of exchange regarding the bolivar, according to the developments of the foreign exchange market. Meanwhile, Roosen commented on the subsidies granted by Fogade [Deposit Guarantee and Banking Protection Fund] to certain financial institutions. He warned that if the loaned money is not repaid on schedule, namely 7 June, these banks will be transferred to state hands. [Begin Roosen recording] We can coordinate theo administration of banks' finances in order to cover the deficiencies a bank may have at a given time, because we will all be shareholders. Banco Latino has a significant cash surplus, which has been exchanged for zero-coupon bonds. Banco Latino does not have any limitations; on the contrary, it is ready to sell these bonds to support its fellow banks owned by Fogade. This will permit them to generate--what I have heard so many times--[words indistinct] short of financial assistance, as part of the financial system without resorting to the zero-coupon market. We have been working on this topic this week, and the principle of autonomous financial management for Fogade is being consolidated, empowering it to supervise and take action regarding the banks they will own and supervise. [end recording]
