FBIS4-61736 "drsov090_b_94003" FBIS-SOV-94-090 Daily Report 9 May 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political Issues Further Reportage on Victory Day Celebrations Further Reportage on Victory Day Celebrations Leading Figures Comment on WWII Victory LD0905164394 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1615 GMT 9 May 94 LD0905164394 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [Text] Moscow May 9 TASS -- Several dozen thousand Muscovites and guests from other cities and republics of the former Soviet Union gathered on Moscow's Poklonny Hill on Monday to pay tribute to the memory of Russia's soldiers who lost their lives defending freedom and peace in the World War Two. The ceremony, which began with an inauguration of a new World War Two museum, was attended by Russian President Boris Yeltsin, Defence Minister Pavel Grachev, Moscow Mayor Yuriy Luzhkov and other high-ranking Russian officials. Yeltsin made a speech and laid a wreath at the war memorial. He also met with war veterans to thank them for their heroism and wish them good health and prosperity. In an exclusive interview with ITAR-TASS on Monday, Yeltsin said that "all this can be considered as a whole: the present celebrations, the upcoming 50th anniversary of the victory and the signing of the memorandum on civic peace and accord. All this raises people's mood and, as a result, there is less and less animosity against each other." "I assess what is going on now very highly," Russian Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin told ITAR-TASS. The signing of the memorandum and the preparations for the 50th anniversary of the victory over the Nazi aim at forging unity in the country. "We must work for unity, so that we had a normal country and could live a normal life," he said. "Such great anniversary unites people," Yeltsin's chief of staff Sergey Filatov said. As never before Russia needs consensus. Today's festivities are in harmony with the memorandum of civic peace and accord, he continued. "People are beginning to calm down and to believe that we will be able to resolve this situation, avoiding civil conflicts," Filatov said. "I believe that this is not an ordinary holiday, but a sign of a breakthrough in what is happening in Russia," Russian Vice-Prime Minister Anatoliy Chubays said. He stressed that there cannot be economic breakthrough without a psychological and moral breakthroughs.
