FBIS3-8329 "dreeu046_r_94001" FBIS-EEU-94-046 Document Type:Daily Report 9 Mar 1994 ROMANIA New Defense, Interior Ministers Installed AU0803141094 Bucharest Radio Romania Network in Romanian 1100 GMT 8 Mar 94 AU0803141094 Bucharest Radio Romania Network Language: Romanian Article Type:BFN [Text] A ceremony to install the new minister of national defense, Gheorghe Tinca, took place in Bucharest today. The ceremony, which took place without the participation of the press, was marked by the presence of Romanian Prime Minister Nicolae Vacaroiu. The ceremony was also attended by Lieutenant General Niculae Spiroiu, former minister of national defense, and other members of the leadership of the Ministry and the Superior Military Council of the Armed Forces. After the ceremony Defense Minister Gheorghe Tinca granted an interview to our reporters in which he expressed the hope that his dialogue with the military will be a very good one. The appointment of a civilian as head of the Defense Ministry, Mr. Tinca said, is part of a process aimed at modernizing our various structures, a process that we assumed by ourselves, as it was not imposed but rather merely suggested by European bodies. Tinca also expressed his hope that the Armed Forces will benefit from his experience as a diplomat in its relations with parliament, the political parties, and other state bodies. He said that he will promote values such as calmness, tactfulness, sincerity, honesty and noted that he preferred open discussions to the benefit of the Armed Forces and the country. At noon today at the headquarters of the Romanian Interior Ministry, in the presence of Prime Minister Nicolae Vacaroiu and members of the Interior Ministry Collegium, a ceremony was held to install new Interior Minister Doru Ioan Taracila. In his speech Prime Minister Nicolae Vacaroiu presented the personality of the new minister, pointing out that the appointment of a civilian personality to lead that ministry is part of the broad process of the country's democratization and its adaptation to the practices and standards of the advanced democracies. After assessing the previous activity of the Ministry as positive, Vacaroiu thanked the former interior minister, Lieutenant General George Ioan Danescu, who was appointed state secretary and deputy of the interior minister. New Interior Minister Doru Ioan Taracila stated that he will firmly act to continue reform and to boost the efficiency of actions aimed at fighting the phenomenon of infractions and the scourge of corruption and at ensuring law and public order. Lieutenant General George Ioan Danescu mentioned a few issues in which the Ministry of Interior achieved progress over the past year and pointed out that in his new capacity he will work to improve the entire activity of the Ministry. The newly appointed interior minister is currently holding a news conference.
