FBIS4-17680 "drsov080_b_94003" FBIS-SOV-94-080 Daily Report 25 Apr 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political Issues Yeltsin's Memorandum on Accord Amended Yeltsin's Memorandum on Accord Amended LD2504182594 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1631 GMT 25 Apr 94 LD2504182594 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent tamara zamyatina] [Text] Moscow April 25 TASS -- The memorandum on Civic Peace and Accord was fundamentally amended after Russian President Boris Yeltsin met with leaders from factions in the State Duma and with the heads of Russia's regions, presidential chief-of-staff Sergey Filatov told ITAR-TASS on Monday. He reported that the ban on proposing constitutional amendments which could destabilize the situation in society was removed. The text now states that the signatories agree to prepare constitutional amendments "on the basis of agreement." In addition, the working group which prepared the memorandum removed the thesis about the obligation of bringing regional constitutions into line with the federal one, after taking into account the objections of local leaders. "That task will be resolved outside of the memorandum," Filatov said. Also in accordance with regional desires, the document calls for the proper implementation of the law on rehabilitating small nationalities which were persecuted during Stalinist rule. The leaders of the agrarian and communist parties were likewise listened to; the memorandum now states that the signatories promise to work towards decreasing the income difference between the wealthy and poor. ITAR-TASS asked Filatov if he thought the president did the right thing in canceling his decree depriving the former deputies which participated in the anti-Yeltsin events of October 3 and 4 of monetary compensation and housing, considering that leader of the front of national salvation Ilya Konstantinov is continuing to call for early presidential elections. In response, filatov explained that the cancellation of that decree did not mean those deputies who were "black-listed" would receive their housing for free. "Let them buy it at its market price," he said. The chief-of-staff noted that Yeltsin did not count on the support of extremist organisations for the memorandum on accord and did not invite them to sign it. Concerning the refusal of the leader of the liberal "Yabloko" fraction, Grigory Yavlinsky, to participate in the agreement process, Filatov commented that "the voters are hardly likely to support him in that refusal."
