FBIS4-65125 "drweu092_n_94001" FBIS-WEU-94-092 Daily Report 10 May 1994 NORDIC COUNTRIES Denmark Liberal Party Rejects Progress Party Role Liberal Party Rejects Progress Party Role PM1105143094 Copenhagen BERLINGSKE TIDENDE in Danish 10 May 94 p 7 PM1105143094 Copenhagen BERLINGSKE TIDENDE Danish BFN [Report by Henrik Qvortrup: "Ellemann-Jensen Sharpens Tone Toward Progress Party"] [Text] The Liberal Party chairman totally rejects any idea of giving the Progress Party the slightest influence over a future nonsocialist government's foreign policy. He also called remarks by Foreign Minister Niels Helveg Petersen "indecent." The Progress Party will not have a scrap of influence on a future nonsocialist government's foreign, defense, and European policies. On this point Liberal Party chairman Uffe Ellemann-Jensen is uncompromising. He completely rebuffs [Progress Party chairman] Pia Kjaersgaard who demanded in INFORMATION that the Progress Party be given concessions in these fields, if after an election there is a majority comprising the Liberal Party, the Conservative People's Party, and the Progress Party. "I would like to make it crystal clear: They will have no influence on foreign, security, defense, and European policy. So there is no reason to waste any more time on this question," Uffe Ellemann-Jensen told BERLINGSKE TIDENDE. The party chairman also stressed that under no circumstances can there be any suggestion of a Liberal Party-Conservative People's Party-Progress Party government. This is another possibility with which Pia Kjaersgaard has flirted. "I would like to make it abundantly clear what the objective is here: We are hoping for a Liberal Party-Conservative People's Party-Progress Party majority. And on that base we will form a Liberal Party-Conservative People's Party government," Ellemann-Jensen said. At the weekend Radical Liberal Foreign Minister Niels Helveg Petersen warned against a Liberal Party-Conservative People's Party government which does not in advance have a majority for its foreign policy. Helveg Petersen hinted that such a government should not count on the help of the Radical Liberals, for example. Ellemann-Jensen called these remarks "indecent and tasteless." "These are the best words, because his remarks create uncertainty about Danish foreign policy. And that is something that Helveg Petersen as foreign minister should steer well clear of." Ellemann-Jensen admitted that the Radical Liberals' votes in the field of foreign policy could be needed by a possible future Liberal Party-Conservative People's Party government. "It it really turns out that the Radical Liberals want to return to the footnote politics of the eighties they will find themselves facing an election. And we will see who wins it," Ellemann-Jensen said.
