FBIS4-23722 "drafr115_d_94008" FBIS-AFR-94-115 Daily Report 14 Jun 1994 SOUTHERN AFRICA Mozambique Second Phase of Armed Forces Training To Begin Second Phase of Armed Forces Training To Begin MB1506091894 Maputo Radio Mozambique Network in Portuguese 1730 GMT 14 Jun 94 MB1506091894 Maputo Radio Mozambique Network Portuguese BFN [Text] In Maputo today, the government and Renamo [Mozambique National Resistance] agreed to send their men to the various barracks where they will wait for the start of the second phase of training of Mozambique Defense Armed Forces [FADM] personnel. Sources with the Joint Commission for the Formation of the Mozambique Defense Armed Forces [CCFADM] say the decision is designed to speed up the closure of government and Renamo assembly points at a time when idle troops are mutinying. A senior government army official says that is an important decision and will be implemented through the creation of logistical conditions to receive and select personnel for the FADM. The sources noted that once the troops enter the provisional barracks, they will cease to belong to the warring armies and come under the jurisdiction of the Supreme Command of the FADM. While waiting for specialized training, the troops will undergo basic training provided by Mozambican instructors, probably advised by foreigners. Today's session of the CCFADM named the first officers from the two sides and specified who will join the various branches of the FADM Supreme Command. The officers have completed a leadership course given by Portuguese experts. Government and Renamo officers have not ruled out the training of the new army's 30,000 men after the October 1994 elections. They noted, however, that a clear program has been adopted for the training of troops within a reasonable period. Renamo Major General Herminio Morais said his movement has already submitted the list of Renamo men that will undergo navy commando training at Catembe. The group will be sent to Catembe by UN Operations in Mozambique. The government's personnel for the course have already arrived in Maputo. The role played by Italian military experts in the training of the new army will be clarified over the next two weeks.
