FBIS3-10573 "drlat046_l_94001" FBIS-LAT-94-046 Document Type:Daily Report 9 Mar 1994 Bolivia DEA `Human Rights Violations' Case Being Heard PY0803184294 La Paz Television Nacional Network in Spanish 0100 GMT 8 Mar 94 PY0803184294 La Paz Television Nacional Network Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Text] The Human Rights Committee is investigating the alleged torture of people arrested on drug trafficking charges. Here is Mario Espinosa's report: [Begin recording] [Espinosa] Drug trafficking continues to be of paramount importance here in Bolivia, and particularly in Congress. Five people who were arrested in Chonchocorro have visited the Human Rights Committee office. They are testifying in the case of the DEA safe houses, and what they call the constant human rights violations by DEA agents. This is why policemen can now be seen at Congress. The Human Rights Committee has several reasons for beginning this investigation: One originated in the United States, where a communique reports that human rights violations are being committed under the guise of the antinarcotics struggle. Outside the committee's office, people were saying the arrested people were giving detailed reports of the torture sessions they endured at the DEA safe houses. This was confirmed by Juan del Granado, president of the Chamber of Deputies Human Rights Committee: [Granado] We will continue the investigations to prove or disprove charges that have been made public and which we received today. These are the starting point for the investigation. We are concerned about this situation because we have repeatedly received charges that Special Antinarcotics Force, FELCN, agents are torturing Bolivian citizens under the guise of judicial police investigations. If this is the case, the legislative branch will adopt drastic measures. [Espinosa] Juan del Granado clearly said it: We cannot accept that one crime should used to fight other crimes. If the charges are proven there will be sanctions. [end recording]
