FBIS3-10815 "drlat049_o_94006" FBIS-LAT-94-049 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Mar 1994 Colombia Justice Minister Comments PA1303032194 Santa Fe de Bogota Inravision Television Cadena 1 in Spanish 0130 GMT 13 Mar 94 PA1303032194 Santa Fe de Bogota Inravision Television Cadena 1 Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [From the "TV Today" newscast] [Text] The Colombian Government welcomed gladly today the report that two additional alleged Valle del Cauca drug traffickers had surrendered. They are Julio Fabio Urdinola Grajales, brother of Ivan Urdinola Grajales, and Jesus Ancizar Porras, who were interned at Palmira Prison, Valle del Cauca Department, where they will negotiate their penalties with the Prosecutor General's Office. Urdinola Grajales arrived with his defense counsels and immediately was received by Regional Prosecutor Francisco Javier Hernandez and Palmira Prison Director Marco Antonio de Moya. During the legal proceedings after undergoing a medical checkup, Urdinola Grajales confessed to his participation in drug-trafficking activities. [Begin recording] [Unidentified reporter] Will the police or Army be in charge of security? [Captain Raul Benavides, Valle del Cauca police commander] It is the prison director's duty; we will back him up, however. [end recording] Ancizar Porras arrived with Urdinola Grajales and confessed to his participation in crimes related to manslaughter. [Begin recording] [Justice Minister Andres Gonzalez Diaz] This is an important and interesting event in the country's struggle against drug trafficking and organized crime; in addition, it underlines the fact it is more intelligent to surrender to the authorities than to perish as the result of the state's unceasing and determined actions. [Prosecutor General Gustavo de Greiff] This is the result of a process in which the administration of justice, the government, and the police have cooperated. All of this has led to this surrender, and I hope it will also lead to other surrenders. [end recording] Both Urdinola Grajales and Ancizar Porras will be held at Palmira Prison, where they will negotiate with the Prosecutor General's Office a quick end to the process they initiated with their surrender today.
