FBIS4-30932 "dreeu105__a94001" FBIS-EEU-94-105-A Daily Report 30 May 1994 ANNEX Albania Spokesman Condemns Greek `Policy of Threats' Spokesman Condemns Greek `Policy of Threats' AU3005091294 Tirana ATA in English 0832 GMT 30 May 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY AU3005091294 Tirana ATA English BFN [Text] Tirana, May 30 (ATA) -- Commenting on the storm of threats, slanders and offenses towards Albania and Albanian authorities as well as the war mongering calls of the most senior authorities of Greece over the last weekend, the spokesman of the Foreign Ministry said that all these aim at stirring up tensions and artificially preventing the dialogue. Referring to numerous threats by the Greek officials, the spokesman stressed that the Albanians and Albania, as the most ancient nation of the Balkans, do not threaten anyone, but they also consider hopeless those who try to impress the Albanians through threats. The policy of threats towards the Albanians is an abortive policy. Regarding the numerous offenses by senior Greek officials for Albanian authorities and Albania, the spokesman said that he did not want to answer because he said they reminded him of the Hoxha period when the dictator used to slander and offend all the leadership of Europe. Certainly, he said, "I consider them as an expression of the crisis of the political culture. I can see that object of their attacks have also been other European countries during the past few months." Further on the spokesman said that what should be considered true and dangerous are the warmongering calls of the Greek senior political leadership and the evocation on their part of another Bosnia in the south of the Balkans. "I think that Greek statements should be analyzed through a special preoccupation by the European Union, the USA, Russia and the UN. They are a clear sign showing that those who are dreaming of another Bosnia are seriously attacked by the Serbian syndrome. This clearly helps to interpret and understand more clearly and convincingly the greek regional policy for the past two years. I remind these messrs", the spokesman said further on, "that the game of Bosnia in the south of the Balkans means a broader Balkan conflict for which they will be fully responsible.
