FBIS4-64057 "drsov103_b_94004" FBIS-SOV-94-103 Daily Report 26 May 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political Issues Yeltsin Addresses Counterintelligence Conference Yeltsin Addresses Counterintelligence Conference Says Forces Seek To Weaken Russia LD2605161894 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1550 GMT 26 May 94 LD2605161894 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Olga Semenova] [Text] Moscow May 26 TASS -- "There are, unfortunately, still forces in the world which would like to weaken Russia, to make her a weak country with a cheap working force and a low intellectual potential" said Russian President Boris Yeltsin on Thursday, speaking at an all-Russia meeting of the leadership of the Russian Federal Counter-intelligence Service. With this in mind, the president emphasized that ideological conflicts are being replaced by a struggle for spheres of influence in geopolitics, in which Russia's integration into the world economy is seen as a threat to the national interests of several leading states who see Russia as a competitor in everything. Therefore, Yeltsin said, "no matter what changes occur in Russia and the world, it will be a very long time before counter-intelligence specialists are threatened by unemployment". There are those who would like to take Russia's natural resources and acquire her leading technologies in several spheres. The recent exposure of several foreign spies in Russia is evidence of this, the president said. But the work of the federal counter-espionage people should not be judged by the number of spies they catch. The most important thing, Yeltsin said, is preventive work; first of all, "espionage activities in Russia must be prevented". The president also expressed serious concern over the "dissolution of the state secret system". The reforming of ministries, the destruction of the control over secrets which was formerly exercised by individual government and economic sectors, and the unfounded liquidation of many supervising state bodies have resulted in the disorganisation of the former system of keeping state secrets. Russia has adopted the law, "On State Secrets", but a new system of defending state secrets has not yet been created on its foundation. Yeltsin expressed his opinion that only the federal counter-intelligence service is capable of reliably protecting state secrets under the current conditions. Non-state structures especially need that department's help in developing and implementing protection measures, the president said.
