FBIS3-11803 "drlat059_c_94022" FBIS-LAT-94-059 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Mar 1994 MEXICO Chamber of Deputies Urges Avoiding Speculation PA2503204894 Mexico City Radio ACIR Network in Spanish 1949 GMT 25 Mar 94 PA2503204894 Mexico City Radio ACIR Network Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Report by Jose Luis Sarmiento from the Chamber of Deputies in Mexico City] [Text] No one should speculate, so that the economic and political problems in the country do not worsen. This statement was made by Gonzalo Altamirano Dimas, a deputy from the National Action Party [PAN] and party president in the Federal District. He added that although the Mexican Stock Exchange [BMV] has experienced some drops, this is something natural due to the recent murder of Luis Donaldo Colosio. In an interview, Gonzalo Altamirano Dimas said that the stability of the BMV will depend on immediate actions by the authorities. [Begin Altamirano Dimas recording] We must be prudent, the country's interests must prevail over all other interests, regardless of how legitimate these may be. The death of Mr. Colosio must be cleared up. We join this clamor for a thorough investigation and that the persons responsible for the attack be arrested and punished with the full weight of the law. [end recording] Meanwhile, the parliamentary group of the Party of the Democratic Revolution [PRD] has also rejected all ties with violence. In a news conference, the PRD wing at the Chamber of Deputies sent condolences to the family of Luis Donaldo Colosio Murrieta. The party demanded a thorough investigation and clarification of the presidential candidate's murder. PRD Deputy Alejandro Encinas announced the commission to investigate the attack on Luis Donaldo Colosio has begun to work and will be in Tijuana early Saturday morning to meet with the highest federal authorities, study the area where Colosio was killed, and prepare a detailed report that will be presented on Monday to the Permanent Commission of the Congress.
