FBIS4-31714 "dreeu115_s_94003" FBIS-EEU-94-115 Daily Report 20 May 1994 SLOVENIA Fulfillment of 1989 `May Declaration' Assessed Fulfillment of 1989 `May Declaration' Assessed 94BA0303F Ljubljana DELO in Slovene 20 May 94 p 2 94BA0303F Ljubljana DELO Slovene CSO [Article signed by 40 Slovene politicians: "The May Declaration--Five Years Later"] [Text] The May Declaration as a political starting point for social renewal contains four fundamental goals: --state independence; --democracy as a basis for social restructuring; --a parliamentary multiparty system as a basis for the political structure; --an economic system based on the experiences of the modern welfare society. All those fundamental goals are mutually interdependent conditions for each other, and are therefore only attainable as a whole. We have achieved: --state independence and international recognition; --a constitutionally sovereign state, which has created the necessary normative starting point for Slovenia as a law-governed and social-welfare state based on the protection of human rights, private property, and free enterprise; --a formal democracy as a basis for social renewal and restructuring; --a political structure with a parliamentary multiparty system. The following have not been achieved: --the new state actually has not broken off continuity with the previous totalitarian structure. It has not acknowledged and has not condemned the worst actions of totalitarian violence and the violation of human rights; --the constitution has not been followed by legislation that would take its general starting points to the level of feasibility. The constitution has remained an unfinished work that cannot survive without executive legislation and is therefore threatened itself; --democracy, as a basis for social restructuring, has admittedly been achieved on the formal level, but the oligarchic structure of society from the communist period has been preserved, mostly with the same people in social roles and with essentially unchanged relationships of social power. That allows those who hold that power to have their present positions also formally legitimized, and to use them to block further democratic transformation. An assessment of the present political and legal situation leads to the conclusion that there is almost complete continuity withthe structure and distribution of social power that prevailed under the communist regime, and an actual discontinuity with the political will and efforts that governed the so-called Slovene Spring. What Next We have to continue where we were stopped: --to reunite and mobilize all those forces which carried out the break with communism and began social renewal, and moreover on the basis of modern political organization; --to continue resolutely with the democratization of society on the basis of a new redistribution of social power and social roles. Above all, accelerated privatization and the reorganization of the state administration and state services should contribute to that goal. All illegally appropriated social property should be returned; --to accelerate legislation that will ensure actual implementation of the constitution and not just the formal coordination of the former legal order that was the basis for the communist regime. Note: Among the first to sign "The May Declaration--Five Years Later" were Dr. Miha Tisler, Dr. Ludvik Toplak, Dr. Anton Trstenjak, Dame Zajc, Dr. Janez Bernik, Dr. Peter Jambrek, Dr. Miha Brejc, Drago Jancar, Niko Grafenauer, Joze Snoj, Tone Kuntner, Dr. Ivo Urbancic, Evgen Bavcar, Marja Strojin, Boris Cavazza, Dare Valic, Dr. Primoz Simoniti, Vinko Kobal, Dr. Berta Jereb, Boris Pahor, Leon Gostisa, Ivan Persak, Dr. France Bucar, Viktor Blazic, Dr. Joze Pucnik, Dr. Franc Zagozen, Ivan Oman, Marjan Podobnik, Janez Jansa, Vane Gosnik, Saso Lap, Marjan Vidmar, Ivan Pucnik, Janez Podobnik, Dr. Anton Strojin, Dr. Marjan Jereb, Rudi Seligo, Veno Taufer, and Lojze Lebic.
