FBIS3-40899 "jptac002___94011" JPRS-TAC-94-002 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Arms Control 8 February 1994 CENTRAL EURASIA REGIONAL AFFAIRS Details of Tripartite Agreement Reached 14 January Kravchuk Arrives in Moscow LD1301211094 Moscow Ostankino Television First Channel Network in Russian 1800 GMT 13 Jan 94 LD1301211094 Moscow Ostankino Television First Channel Network Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Interview with Ukrainian President Leonid Kravchuk by correspondent Natalya Chernyshova at Moscow airport on 13 January; from the "Novosti" newscast -- recorded] [Text] Chernyshova: Leonid Makarovich, would you say a few words about your talks with Clinton? Kravchuk: They were good, normal talks. We discussed several problems. The first one, naturally, was the nuclear problem; the second, the economic one, our relations with the United States. We discussed questions connected with tomorrow's signing of documents by the presidents of Russia, the United States, and Ukraine. I think this is a great breakthrough, a political breakthrough, an economic breakthrough. The main thing is that we have succeeded in resolving a very complicated global problem -- the nuclear one -- in a civilized way, in the interests of our states, Russia, Ukraine, and the United States, and, of course, of the entire world. Chernyshova: And what compromises have been made by Ukraine and by Russia? Kravchuk: Well, the compromises are natural. We have reached an agreement. That is no longer a secret -- compensation for Ukraine's tactical nuclear weapons, and, of course, the agreements which have already been signed on strategic nuclear weapons, normal economic relations, normal economic ties, the exclusion of any pressure, territorial integrity of states, mutual respect, relations of partnership. That is to say, frankly, that this is nothing new. It is all generally accepted in the world. The only thing is that we have so far been finding it very difficult to get accustomed to this. Chernyshova: Will the Ukrainian parliament ratify this agreement? Kravchuk: I think it will ratify the agreement because it is a good solution for everyone, including us. It is good in that it increases our people's awareness that we are being treated with respect, normally, as a country, as a state, and not as some -- well -- secondary appendage. That is the first point. Second, everything is being resolved fairly, therefore the parliament must ratify. I am convinced of this. Chernyshova: And tomorrow you will sign the agreement? Kravchuk: Absolutely!
