FBIS3-13406 "drnes049_l_94001" FBIS-NES-94-049 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Mar 1994 ISRAEL Cabinet Declares Kakh, Kahana Hay `Terrorists' TA1303115194 Jerusalem Qol Yisra'el in Hebrew 1120 GMT 13 Mar 94 TA1303115194 Jerusalem Qol Yisra'el Language: Hebrew Article Type:BFN [Report by political correspondent Shlomo Raz outside the Prime Minister's Office in Jerusalem -- live] [Excerpts] Attorney General Mikha'el Ben-Ya'ir emerged from the building a few minutes ago and announced that Kakh and Kahana Hay have been declared terror organizations on par with Hamas [Islamic Resistance Movement], to cite just one example. Let us hear Ben-Ya'ir's explanations: [Begin Ben-Ya'ir recording] The government hereby declares that the following groups are terrorist organizations: 1. The Kakh movement, whose key activists today are: Barukh Marzel, No'am Federman, and Tiran Polack. 2. The Kahana Hay movement, whose key activists today are: Binyamin Kahana, David Axelrod, and Yequti'el Ben-Ya'aqov. This decree applies to the aforementioned terrorist organizations, as well as to any group of people acting to attain the same kind of goals which the aforementioned organizations acted to attain and with means similar to those used by the aforementioned organizations, even if they are called by other names or monikers either on a permanent or a temporary basis. This decree will also apply to splinter groups or combinations of the aforementioned organizations. [end recording] [passage omitted] The cabinet decided to outlaw these movements after examining various pieces evidence. In view of the fact that this decision curtails basic democratic liberties, such as the freedom of association and freedom of movement, the attorney general reiterated several times that the cabinet is in possession of evidence with regard to the dangers posed by these movements. [passage omitted] The meaning of the decision is that anybody supporting these terrorist organizations, either verbally or financially, will be liable for imprisonment and that the property of these organizations may be confiscated. The attorney general went on to say that the police commissioner is entitled to order the closing of places where activists of these organizations assemble. The decision is based on Article 8 of the Antiterror Act. As said a few minutes ago, the cabinet has decided that the Kakh and Kahana Hay movements are terrorist organizations according to all the legal definitions of the nature of a terrorist organization and are as of this moment declared illegal.
