FBIS4-41069 "drsov120_p_94003" FBIS-SOV-94-120 Daily Report 21 Jun 1994 CAUCASUS Armenia Foreign Affairs Ministry Statement on Fighting Foreign Affairs Ministry Statement on Fighting NC2106125894 Yerevan ARAGIL ELECTRONIC NEWS BULLETIN in English 0709 GMT 21 Jun 94 NC2106125894 Yerevan ARAGIL ELECTRONIC NEWS BULLETIN English BFN [Text] Yerevan ("HAYASTANI HANRAPETUTYUN" daily), 06/21/94 -- RA [Republic of Armenia] Ministry of Foreign Affairs made a declaration, which particularly says: "The Azeri military units shelled the north-eastern districts of the republic at 5am on June 5, and penetrated into the Noyemberyanskiy district. Having attacked the frontier post at the village of Barekamavan, the Azeris killed and outraged 6 Armenian frontier guards, wounded one and captured one frontier guard. RA government believes that this provocation attack, in conditions when no military operations are carried out, evidences aggravation of the Azeri position and its negative attitude towards serious negotiations. This attack coincided in time with CSCE Minsk group Chairman's visit to Armenia. Therefore, this was, in fact, an attempt to fail Jan Eliasson's mission. RA government demands official apologies and corresponding explanations from the Azeri authorities, as well as immediate return of the captured frontier guard and to cover the expenses caused by the attack. Until the Azeri government does not satisfy the mentioned demands, RA government will seriously consider the question of stopping all negotiations on resolution of the Karabakh conflict. Responsibility for all consequences of failing the negotiations will lie on the Azeri republic. Paying a great importance to de-facto cessation of military operations in Mountainous Karabakh during the month, and hoping that this may become a basis for a legal cease fire and for successful negotiations on resolution of the conflict, RA ordered its units not to respond to this provocative operation. Nevertheless, if such actions are repeated, RA keeps the right to take adequate measures."
