FBIS3-18504 "drweu043__a94022" FBIS-WEU-94-043-A Document Type:Daily Report 4 March 1994 ANNEX Switzerland Aristide Opposes Embargo Against Haiti BR0203155494 Bern ATSA/SDAA in French 1201 GMT 2 Mar 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY BR0203155494 Bern ATSA/SDAA Language: French Article Type:BFN [Article signed SM/HS: "Father Aristide Before Commission on Human Rights -- `Bloody, Ferocious, and Barbaric Dictatorship in Haiti'"; as released by Bern ATSA/SDAA database] [Text] Bern, 2 Mar (ATS) -- Addressing the UN Commission on Human Rights on Wednesday [2 March], exiled Haitian President Jean-Bertrand Aristide stated: "For 30 months Haiti has been subjected to a bloody, ferocious, and barbaric dictatorship." He claimed that, since his overthrow by the Army on 30 September 1991, the repression has led to over 5,000 deaths. "The putschists and their international allies want to condemn the Haitian people to a slow death," the president continued. Speaking at a press conference, Father Aristide stated that these "international allies" were in fact "narcotics traffickers" who were supplying the putschists with money and arms to maintain their "narcotics regime." According to the Haitian president, some 40 to 48 tonnes of cocaine pass through Haiti each year, with a street value of $1.2 billion. Omnipresent Army Army chiefs and the Haitian police must leave "immediately," Father Aristide told the Commission. For the putschists, the 67 percent of the population that elected him into presidential office "must be reduced to a group of men and women condemned to accept neocolonialism or death." With 7,000 men, the Army "absorbs more than 40 percent of the national budget." In the opinion of the deposed president, the legal system no longer functions because the weapons of the putschists are "constantly aimed at" the judges. Journalists have been forced underground. "The colonization that followed in the wake of Christopher Columbus led to the genocide of the American Indians. Ninety million of them were lost in the first 100 years following the arrival of the explorer from Genoa. In Haiti the genocide is continuing," added president Aristide. "Some 300,000 Haitians are displaced in their country. Moreover, Haitian political refugees who try to enter the United States by sea are arrested just off the coast of Haiti and are delivered to the putschist murderers or die at sea," Mr. Aristide continued. President Aristide told journalists that he was opposed to a UN Security Council draft resolution that would considerably strengthen the embargo against Haiti with the cooperation of all parties but which did not explicitly mention the deposed president. He intends to raise the matter with UN Secretary General Butrus Butrus-Ghali on Saturday in New York.
