FBIS4-40719 "drsov118_a_94030" FBIS-SOV-94-118 Daily Report 19 Jun 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Meets German Parliamentarians Meets German Parliamentarians LD1906142894 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1343 GMT 19 Jun 94 LD1906142894 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [By ITAR-TASS] [Text] Berlin June 19 TASS -- "Russia and Germany are currently going through the process of renewal, which, despite many differences, have much in common. In particular, this concerns Eastern Germany, which offers broad opportunities for cooperation and interaction," said visiting Chairman of the Russian State Duma, Ivan Rybkin, addressing representatives of the Berlin parliamentary assembly in the "Charlottenburg" Castle in Berlin on Sunday. Rybkin expressed his gratitude for the warm and friendly welcome given to the Russian delegation, saying that "during the period of uneasy economic transformations in Russia cooperation with Germany is of great importance." Deputy chairman of the Berlin assembly of lawmakers, Reinhard Fuerer, said that Germany regards the visit by the Russian delegation as a contribution to the development of existing contacts and the beginning of new contacts between the two countries at a parliamentary level. "Tremendous changes are taking place both in Russia and in Germany. The Russian Federation has achieved considerable progress on the way to democracy. This is worthy of praise even more, taking into account a complex process of reforms in the country's economy which, at times, poses serious problems to the population. However, these problems and additional hardships should not be used as a pretext for going back on the process of democratisation," the deputy chairman of the Berlin assembly said. He pointed out that Russia should take a firm place in free europe. "Russia is doing so by taking an active part in U.N. peace- keeping actions. Such efforts arouse respect all over the world, the German lawmaker said. The chairman of the Russia State Duma made an entry in Berlin's "gold book".
