FBIS4-65208 "drweu093_i_94006" FBIS-WEU-94-093 Daily Report 10 May 1994 FRANCE Balladur, New Caledonia's Neaoutyne Meet Balladur, New Caledonia's Neaoutyne Meet BR1005125294 Paris LE FIGARO in French 10 May 94 p 6 BR1005125294 Paris LE FIGARO French BFN [Unattributed report: "New Caledonia -- Edouard Balladur Meets With Neaoutyne"] [Text] The prime minister yesterday met with Paul Neaoutyne, president of the Kanak Socialist National Liberation Front (FLNKS -- separatist), with whom he discussed the territory's future. At the end of this meeting, Mr. Neaoutyne, who decided not to participate in the follow-up committee on the Matignon agreement last year, discussed with Mr. Balladur the "FLNKS' desire to see the partnership" between the [French] state and the [overseas] territory "returning to something concrete." "The prime minister," Mr. Neaoutyne added, "said that the government's position was to pursue" the action taken and make sure that "the state plays its role in ensuring that the partnership initiated is maintained so that over the next four years the discussions go beyond the current disputes and disagreements, so that choices are freely made in the 1995 and 1998 elections." The FLNKS president also emphasized the "disagreements" which exist in the sphere of air transport and nickel. Return to Calm In this connection, he reaffirmed that his party wanted air transport to be opened up to competition to bring to the territory a clientele likely to "revive tourism." On the subject of nickel, which recently sparked off disturbances in Noumea, he reaffirmed his demand for "raising the nickel quota on over a renewable annual period so as to enable the mining companies to regain market shares compared with Indonesia and Malaysia." Calm has been restored on the spot, with the "truckers" having agreed to withdraw their vehicles from the southern province following the agreement to take account of their demands. Max Foucher, president of the trucker's trade union said, "there are no winners or losers, but we are still vigilant." Reason has prevailed following 18 days of a conflict marked by the plundering of the area surrounding the Southern Province Administrative Headquarters and the High Commission. A timetable has been drawn up for an emergency procedure. As of this week, several meetings will be held to prepare the work of the standing commission which is responsible for deciding on the proposals which will be submitted to the Congress.
