FBIS3-6746 "dreas055_c_94007" FBIS-EAS-94-055 Document Type:Daily Report 22 Mar 1994 North Korea Kim Yong-sam Criticized for Student Suppression SK2203050894 Pyongyang KCNA in English 0446 GMT 22 Mar 94 SK2203050894 Pyongyang KCNA Language: English Article Type:BFN ["`Civilian' Poodle Brandishes Sword" -- KCNA headline] [Text] Pyongyang, March 22 (KCNA) -- NODONG SINMUN today runs a commentary denouncing the Kim Yong-sam group for criminalizing and brutally suppressing students who rose up in an anti-American struggle. Recalling that the puppets mercilessly cracked down upon the struggle of students affiliated with the Eastern Seoul district Federation of General Student Councils including Hanyang and Konkuk Universities against agricultural market opening and the anti-American struggle of students under the Pusan-South Kyongsang Provincial Federation of General Student Councils, the analyst of the paper says: This clearly shows once again the vicious and treacherous nature of the "civilian"-veiled Kim Yong-sam puppet clique. The anti-American struggle of students is an eruption of their resolute will not to tolerate the U.S. moves of aggression and war which are becoming all the more unscrupulous and virulent with the passage of times. The righteous struggle of students that must be praised as patriotic is suppressed by the Kim Yong-sam group which styles itself "civilian". Such thing can be committed only by the despicable pro-American flunkeyist traitors who are prolonging their days by clinging to the coattail of the United States, their master. Kim Yong-sam is a rank traitor who has served the United States like his "grandfather" and took the "presidential" seat with the U.S. approval. So, he is wielding the sword at the patriotic movement for national independence and unhesitatingly committed such anti-national crimes as desperately opposing the principle of national independence at the working contact for the exchange of special envoys and leading it to a rupture. If a disaster is to be avoided, the "civilian" poodle, the guide to the robber, must be removed together with the intruder.
