FBIS4-21389 "jpten009___94055" JPRS-TEN-94-009 JPRS Environmental Issues 24 March 1994 CENTRAL EURASIA RUSSIA Concern Grows Over Trainload of Toxic Waste Concern Grows Over Trainload of Toxic Waste PM2503094594 Moscow ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA in Russian 24 Mar 94 First Edition p 3 PM2503094594 Moscow ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA Russian BFN [ITAR-TASS report: "What the Dumping of Toxic Substance Threatens?"] [Text] The railcars containing industrial waste from France, the Netherlands, and Israel which have been halted for almost 50 days in the Orenburg area have "won" worldwide notoriety. The international environmental organization Greenpeace has drawn attention to the trainload of harmful, toxic substances and demanded that France remove the dangerous consignment from Russia. What is the nub of the issue here? "The train comprising 16 cars carrying waste products arrived in Orsk for reprocessing at the Yuzhuralnikel combine, but the waste products turned out to contain high levels of harmful substances such as cadmium (up to 15 percent), thallium (2-3 percent), and arsenic. The train was sent further into the steppe -- to the Buruktal combine, in Svetlinskiy Rayon. We do not have the techniques for detecting these toxic substances," Chief State Inspector Viktor Blinov, first deputy chairman of Orenburg Oblast's Environment Committee, said. It is impossible to send the train back, as we have no address, he stressed, explaining: "As soon as the cargo crossed the border at St. Petersburg the consignor relinquished all responsibility. The customhouse at Astovo station let the train in. It clearly should be called to account. And it is strange that the certificate of quality for the raw materials was a week late in coming, by which time the train was already in Buruktal." Viktor Blinov is worried: With the onset of spring the likelihood of the cadmium, thallium, and arsenic "escaping from the sacks into the environment" increases. He considers that "each sack must be placed in a separate metal container. This constitutes a lot of labor-intensive work requiring not just caution but also huge amounts of money." Svetlinskiy Rayon administration chief Vasiliy Yeremenko has "evicted" the train from his territory. It has been moved in the direction of Orsk. The wagons are now halted in a railroad siding.
