FBIS3-47154 "dreas006_d_94007" FBIS-EAS-94-006 Document Type:Daily Report 10 Jan 1994 South Korea Press Comments on U.S. Nuclear Talks With North THE KOREA TIMES Editorial SK0801091794 Seoul THE KOREA TIMES in English 8 Jan 94 p 6 SK0801091794 Seoul THE KOREA TIMES Language: English Article Type:BFN [Unattributed editorial: "No Concessions to North Korea"] [Text] We are paying close attention to news reports that North Korea has agreed to only a one-time international inspection of seven declared nuclear sites but has avoided a much more serious issue -- IAEA [International Atomic Energy Agency] access to undeclared sites, especially two nuclear waste dumps needed to verify clearly whether Pyongyang has been building nuclear weapons. At this moment we do not expect the U.S. to knuckle down to the crafty ploys of Pyongyang, whose words have been seen in the past to bear absolutely no relation with its intentions. Nor will it allow North Korea to wring out of it concessions in their negotiations because it will also have learned that the North, if given an inch, will take a mile. Despite the reported accord, as U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher pointed out Thursday [6 January] in an interview, the U.S. and its allies still face some difficult and sensitive steps before they reach the goal of regular inspections and a nuclear-free Korean peninsula. As far as the nuclear issue is concerned, the fundamental question is whether North Korea has really cast aside its intention to go nuclear. We are particularly suspicious of what appears to be North Korea's strategy to sidestep the crucial issue by allowing only an inadequate single inspection. It cannot be denied that North Korea has delayed things as long as possible anticipating a slip in the basic U.S. position on North Korea which it will exploit for all it is worth. In this connection, both the U.S. and the IAEA must play their cards carefully in their separate talks with North Korea, not unilaterally giving in to North Korea's persistent demand for U.S. diplomatic recognition and cancellation of the Team Spirit military exercise. We stand to lose more than we gain if we resort to a hasty approach in dealing with North Korea.
