FBIS4-56194 "drlat084_c_94009" FBIS-LAT-94-084 Daily Report 28 Apr 1994 MEXICO Cardenas Addresses NAFTA, Immigration Issues Cardenas Addresses NAFTA, Immigration Issues PA3004162294 Mexico City Radio ACIR Network in Spanish 0000 GMT 28 Apr 94 PA3004162294 Mexico City Radio ACIR Network Spanish BFN [Report by Francisco Mendoza on statements by Cuauhtemoc Cardenas, presidential candidate for Mexico's Democratic Revolutionary Party, PRD, during a tour of Los Angeles on 27 April; from the "ACIR Radio News" newscast -- recorded] [Text] Cuauhtemoc Cardenas said he has not noticed any U.S. meddling in the Mexican electoral process and asked the Clinton administration to continue to respect Mexican positions and decisions. Cardenas said internal problems will be solved by Mexicans themselves and added that if he wins the election, he wants a mature, close, productive, respectful, and equal relationship with the United States to solve bilateral problems. Cardenas offered guarantees for investment to help generate jobs and said he would promote changes in NAFTA to address critical omission in that agreement, such as the immigration issue. The PRD presidential candidate also pointed out that the United States has reason to be concerned about instability and the elections in Mexico because any negative event in Mexico has an impact on U.S. social, economic, and political life. Cardenas assured that he would assume total responsibility for improving NAFTA. I am convinced, he added, that gradually, through a dialogue between friends, we can find ways to modify this agreement. It is a cornerstone for a new, imaginative cooperation structure. Nevertheless, he indicated that his view of NAFTA has not changed. The presidential candidate said immigration issues are one area where he has found critical omissions in the treaty. This, he noted is not only the most important issue in the relationship with Mexico, but it also has the greatest potential for controversy. Cardenas criticized U.S. politicians who exploit chauvinism and racism in their xenophobic campaigns against Mexicans. He said investment is important, but it is not the essential ingredient for economic success. He stated that if Mexicans are to live up to their potential, liberty and a state of law must be guaranteed throughout the North American market. Cardenas added that his main goal is to restore true democracy and justice to a society that has been ruled for too long by authoritarian decisions, patronage, and corruption. As I reported this morning, Cuauhtemoc Cardenas also said he supported the observance of the Mexican electoral process by people abroad, by international observers. Cardenas said they should be present not only on election day but that they should already be in Mexico to learn about the whole electoral process. In terms of the debate he will hold with other parties' candidates, Cardenas said that tomorrow, the PRD will hold a first meeting with Adolfo Aguilar Zinzer [newspaper commentator] and representatives of the Institutional Revolutionary Party and the PAN [National Action Party] to decide upon the terms of the debate. Cardenas said there was a problem with the date fixed for the debate but that they are willing to be flexible. This is the general information in broad terms. Cuauhtemoc Cardenas is currently meeting with members of the Mexican community, PRD members in California, and Mexican-Americans assembled in downtown Los Angeles. Several Los Angeles personalities and leaders of the Democratic Party and of liberal and so-called progressive organizations will attend an evening event in Beverly Hills. Cardenas will meet early tomorrow with LOS ANGELES TIMES and LA OPINION executives. Cuauhtemoc Cardenas concludes his tour of Los Angeles tomorrow. He said no other visits to the United States are scheduled in his political campaign.
