FBIS3-11671 "drlat057_c_94011" FBIS-LAT-94-057 Document Type:Daily Report 24 Mar 1994 MEXICO Colosio Shot, Killed in Attack During Tijuana Campaign Stop PRI `Militants' Demand Justice PA2403134094 Madrid EFE in Spanish 1142 GMT 24 Mar 94 PA2403134094 Madrid EFE Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [By Alfonso Barea] [Text] Mexico City, 24 Mar (EFE) -- Thousands of enraged supporters of the PRI have taken to the streets of Mexico City to demand justice in connection with the assassination of PRI presidential candidate Luis Donaldo Colosio. PRI supporters who gathered in front of party headquarters in this capital a few minutes before the report that Colosio had died on the operating table at Tijuana General Hospital have repeatedly called for justice and unity. Throughout the night, however, calls for unity were intermingled with shouts of "Colosio, yes; Camacho, no" from PRI militants who could not hold back their tears. Colosio's rivalry with Manuel Camacho Solis, the commissioner of peace and reconciliation in Chiapas, to succeed Carlos Salinas de Gortari as Mexico's president had continued even after Colosio was designated as the party's official candidate. Last night, many PRI militants warned the party leadership that they would not tolerate the former foreign minister's becoming president. A group of women who had gathered outside PRI headquarters proclaimed: "We want justice." The tense and emotional situation that pervaded the site exploded the moment officials and militants heard on television that the candidate had died. While some people cried in offices, other militants tried to organize public meetings by party leaders while unsuccessfully trying to keep back thousands of people who had gathered outside the building. A woman near a table covered with candles said, "There are many traitors, and it is not good to divide the country." The people nearby applauded her, apparently understanding the meaning of her statement. The people shouted party slogans and expressions of support for Colosio, but they did not heed a suggestion to sing a "corrido [a traditional folk genre in which a person's life or accomplishments are praised in song] for Colosio" in honor of the candidate. Colosio's followers remain gathered around the PRI building, where they will hold a vigil today when Colosio's body is brought to a chapel to be installed at the PRI headquarters.
