FBIS3-55603 "drsov006_u_94007" FBIS-SOV-94-006 Document Type:Daily Report 10 Jan 1994 Latvia CSCE Official Visits on Minority Issues Further on Human Rights LD0701174994 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service in Russian 1111 GMT 7 Jan 94 LD0701174994 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Galina Kuchina] [Text] Riga, 7 Jan -- Max van der Stoel, CSCE high commissioner for national minorities, who has been studying the problems of citizenship in Latvia, ends his regular visit to this country today. During his meetings he has been acquainted with the draft law on citizenship, which has already passed its first reading. The draft envisages that, depending on the demographic and economic situation, the [Latvian] Government will decide how many people are granted citizenship every year. In the opinion of the CSCE commissioner, prospects for many citizens will remain vague. He suggests that one should be guided by the number of years people have lived in Latvia. However, according to Saeima Chairman Anatolijs Gorbunovs, this approach will lead to a "large wave of naturalization." The parliament head said a repatriation program is needed, which would encourage people to leave voluntarily. In his opinion, the CSCE structures could demonstrate initiative by drawing up such a program. During his visit Max van der Stoel was told that non-Latvian citizens intend setting up an association to protect the interests of more than 700,000 people. Representatives of the initiative group handed him a list of laws which restrict the rights of citizens with no citizenship, who amount to one-third of the population. They are deprived of the opportunity to work as lawyers and judges, to own land, to freely choose their place of residence in Latvia, and to go to some European countries without a visa. The bill on the elections to local authorities, which has passed two readings, does not allow them to elect and be elected. Sergejs Dimanis, leader of the "Equality" [Ravnopraviye] movement, commented on the bill in detail. The Latvian Foreign Ministry press service reports that at the meeting with the head of the Foreign Political Department, the CSCE commissioner said he "can see no violations of human rights in Latvia."
