FBIS3-56049 "drsov009_b_94022" FBIS-SOV-94-009 Document Type:Daily Report 13 Jan 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Military Issues Typhoon-Class Strategic Nuclear Submarine Featured PM1201130794 Moscow Ostankino Television First Channel Network in Russian 0700 GMT 9 Jan 94 PM1201130794 Moscow Ostankino Television First Channel Network Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Report over video of Russian nuclear submarines introduced by journalist Aleksandr Ostrovskiy; from the "Poligon" program] [Excerpt] [Ostrovskiy] Thoughts about the future of the Russian Navy are on the minds of naval servicemen, and they are not alone in this. Here are two reports by Igor Kondo and Jim Stuart, a U.S. military observer. [Kondo over video of submarines in bay, attributed to VoyenTV] Because of the sharp reduction in Russia's military arsenals, the Navy's responsibility for ensuring Russia's security and sovereignty has increased. This applies in particular to our nuclear submarine fleet, since, in the near future, around 50 percent of Russia's strategic nuclear potential will be based on submarines. This nuclear potential will essentially be concentrated on the latest Typhoon-class submarines armed with strategic missiles. It is possible to claim with confidence that these submarines embody the best achievements of our modern science and technology. Saturated with modern electronics and armed with various types of missiles and torpedoes, designed to protect both underwater and surface targets from enemy attacks, these submarines are fitted with 20 strategic missiles. They can strike from any position, from any part of the world ocean, and against any target. They have no fear of ocean depths or Arctic ice. These submarines are constantly in alert duty mode, irrespective of whether they are at sea or moored at base. Despite their huge dimensions -- they are more than 180 meters long and around 30 meters wide -- they have excellent maneuverability and their survivability is some 40 percent higher than that of similar NATO-country submarines. In short, the Typhoon-class strategic nuclear missile-armed submarines are the pride and joy of our Navy and the guarantor of Russia's security. No other country in the world has such powerful modern submarines in its arsenal. It is no accident that foreign intelligence services watch these submarines closely. A Typhoon only has to put to sea and, in addition to enemy ASW ships, two U.S. Los Angeles-class multirole strike submarines immediately mount a search. The Navy has more than enough problems at the moment. They include fuel and spare part shortages and expired overhaul deadlines. The very future of the Russian Navy is uncertain. New ships are not being built. All this is affecting navigational safety and places an additional burden on naval servicemen. [passage omitted]
