FBIS3-11868 "drlat059_j_94001" FBIS-LAT-94-059 Document Type:Daily Report 27 Mar 1994 Panama Endara Welcomes Gaviria as OAS Secretary General PA2703224994 Mexico City NOTIMEX in Spanish 2108 GMT 27 Mar 94 PA2703224994 Mexico City NOTIMEX Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [By Luis Enrique Vasquez] [Excerpts] Panama City, 27 Mar (NOTIMEX) -- Panamanian President Guillermo Endara said here today that, with his Colombian colleague Cesar Gaviria in the post of OAS secretary general, the organization will wake up and become more dynamic for the benefit of all people on the continent. "Under the leadership of President Gaviria, we will have a new OAS -- one as dynamic as its new secretary general," Endara told NOTIMEX in an interview. Endara added that the people of the continent will have "a great servant" in Gaviria, who is known for his great abilities and charm. Endara said: "The days of the OAS being a somewhat sleepy organization have ended. We will truly see a new OAS. I congratulate President Gaviria and offer him Panama's full support during his tenure." In the past, Panamanian politicians and journalists have criticized the American organization for having maintained "an extremely submissive" position toward the regime of General Manuel Antonio Noriega. In 1989, the Civic Democratic Opposition Alliance (ADOC) asked the OAS to issue a resolution condemning the Noriega regime and recognizing Endara's triumph in the May general elections; this, however, never occurred. [passage omitted on Gaviria's biographical data, background material on the OAS election] Although Panama's vote was committed to Niehaus last year, Endara said Gavira was a "great candidate" to occupy the post. "President Gaviria is very suitable for this post," the Panamanian president told NOTIMEX over the telephone from his presidential residence, where he is resting today. Endara said he urged Niehaus to not feel discouraged by his failure to win the post of OAS secretary general, and he also urged him to offer his support to Gaviria. "I hope this defeat will not discourage him from continuing his great efforts for the sake of the entire continent," Endara added.
