FBIS4-8027 "dreeu069_a_94003" FBIS-EEU-94-069 Daily Report 7 Apr 1994 ALBANIA Zhulali on Membership, Integration Zhulali on Membership, Integration AU0704204394 Tirana TVSH Television Network in Albanian 1800 GMT 7 Apr 94 AU0704204394 Tirana TVSH Television Network Albanian BFN [Text] Official talks between Defense Minister Safet Zhulali and General George Joulwan have taken place at the Defense Ministry. Greeting the high-ranking NATO guest, Minister Zhulali said that his visit to Albania is an historic moment that will give new impetus to Albania's cooperation with NATO and will have its own effects in the region, discouraging all those who attempt to destabilize it. Zhulali noted that since the beginning of the democratic processes, Albania has requested membership in NATO. After the establishment of the democratic government, such a demand was presented officially, because Albania morally feels itself to be a NATO member and is ready to undertake concrete steps in this direction. We are aware that our standards do not correspond to those of NATO, but we have the same democratic values. We are sure that your assistance will not be absent. Thus, we will achieve what we want, Minister Zhulali told his interlocutor. Within this framework President Berisha has signed the Partnership For Peace [PFP] plan, considering it to be an active process that will lead toward Albania's integration into NATO. One of the reasons I chose Albania for my first trip abroad, General Joulwan pointed out, is precisely related to your speedy commitment to the PFP plan. As a commander, I am interested in the documents of the presentation into this partnership, which will determine the course that you will follow, which will be an Albanian program and for Albania, respecting its sovereignty. He assessed the support that Albania has given to UN Security Council resolutions on former Yugoslavia and NATO operations and expressed his support for the democratization process that Albania is following. The exchange of symbolic presents from both parties was assessed as a sign of friendship between NATO and Albania. [passage omitted]
