FBIS4-1455 "drafr083_a_94006" FBIS-AFR-94-000 Daily Report 28 Apr 1994 CENTRAL AFRICA Rwanda Red Cross Comments on Situation Red Cross Comments on Situation LD2804171794 Bern Swiss Radio International in English 1500 GMT 28 Apr 94 LD2804171794 Bern Swiss Radio International English BFN [Report by Chris Lewis] [Excerpts] You're listening to Swiss Radio International. This is Red Cross Review. [passage omitted]. We begin this month's program with Rwanda where the death of President Juvenal Habyarimana in a suspicious plane crash has plunged the country into an inferno of ethnic and political violence. Aid workers say several hundred thousand people have been killed. Hospital patients have been murdered en masse and more than a million people have been driven from their homes. [passage omitted] Since then things have if anything got worse. Attempts to organize a cease-fire have collapsed. The slaughter of civilians has continued unabated and aid workers, including the ICRC have been forced to withdraw from much of the country. The ICRC continues to operate in Kigali but at a reduced level and is taking steps to launch cross border relief operations from Uganda and Tanzania. Aid convoys continue to reach Kigali but officials say they are now very limited in the extent to which they can help the victims of the violence. [passage omitted] Under the current circumstances there is only so much the ICRC can do. It has set up its own medical facilities and some 700 patients are now being treated there and at Kigali central hospital. But armed militia men have not hesitated to stop delegates taking people to hospital. In fact delegates were forced to stop doing so after six wounded were dragged from an ICRC vehicle and shot in front of their eyes. Others have been murdered within minutes of leaving hospital. Even encouraging people to gather together for treatment or shelter in itself exposes them to the risk of wholesale massacre. And delegates themselves are unlikely to feel any safer since the UN's decision to withdraw peacekeeping troops earlier this month. [Passage omitted]
