FBIS3-35512 "drnes038_l_94024" FBIS-NES-94-038 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Feb 1994 ISRAEL Rabin Interviewed on Peace Process, Other Issues LD2402210794 Lisbon RTP Internacional Television in Portuguese 1900 GMT 24 Feb 94 LD2402210794 Lisbon RTP Internacional Television Language: Portuguese Article Type:BFN [Interview with Prime Minister Yitzhaq Rabin by correspondent Paulo Dentinho; place and date not given--recorded in English with superimposed Portuguese translation] [Text] The Israeli prime minister has granted an exclusive interview to RTP. Yitzhaq Rabin believes that the agreement with the PLO will be concluded within two months at most. He was speaking to Paulo Dentinho: [Dentinho] Now that 'Arafat seems to be losing power to the radicals, are you not afraid that the future Palestinian police force might become a threat to Israel? [Rabin] I was aware of that before. When we reach an agreement on implementing the first phase, starting with Gaza and Jericho, it will be a detailed agreement in which the two sides, Israel and the PLO, will set down their undertakings. I believe that it can be put into practice now, or within two months at most. [Dentinho] One question about Jerusalem. The Palestinians, too, want the city for themselves. Do you believe Jerusalem will have a special status? Would you approve of two mayors for the city? [Rabin] By no means. This matter will have to be negotiated, at most [as heard] two years after the implementation of the first phase of the agreement on Gaza and Jericho. So, instead of occupying myself with matters that are irrelevant at the moment -- because it is the first steps that will decide the fate of the ultimate goal -- we will instead focus on what must be done immediately and on what is laid down in the Gaza-Jericho agreement. [Dentinho] Let us imagine that total peace has been achieved. How long do you think it will take for Palestinians and Israelis to forget 50 years of conflict? [Rabin] The time has come to bring it to an end, to say enough is enough to the bloodshed, and to concentrate on changing the reality. I believe that the Israelis are willing to do so and to implement the agreement. I hope the Palestinians will honor their undertakings and do likewise.
