FBIS4-6621 "dreas078_a_94016" FBIS-EAS-94-078 Daily Report 22 Apr 1994 NORTHEAST ASIA Japan Speculation on New Cabinet Replacements Reported Speculation on New Cabinet Replacements Reported OW2204134294 Tokyo KYODO in English 1334 GMT 22 Apr 94 OW2204134294 Tokyo KYODO English BFN [Text] Tokyo, April 22 KYODO -- Replacements for the posts of foreign minister and chief cabinet secretary, to be vacated by Tsutomu Hata and Masayoshi Takemura, will be the focal point of the new cabinet which will emerge after Hata is formally elected prime minister on Monday [25 April], coalition sources said Friday. The coalition parties began negotiations over formation of a new cabinet Friday after the seven coalition blocs endorsed Hata, head of the alliance's core party Shinseito (Japan Renewal Party), as their joint candidate for the upcoming Diet election to select a successor to outgoing Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa, who declared his resignation on April 8. Hata is expected to be elected prime minister with the coalition majority's backing in vote-taking plenary sessions of the House of Representatives and the House of Councillors. Only minor changes, however, will be made in the 20-portfolio lineup, chiefly focusing on the posts of foreign minister and chief cabinet secretary, because of the need to move on the overdue fiscal 1994 state budget drawn up by the present government which is still pending enactment in the Diet, the sources said. Hajime Funada, a Shinseito executive and lower house lawmaker, has emerged as a likely choice to succeed Takemura, along with Kozo Watanabe, Shinseito's deputy secretary general, the sources said. Hata hopes to pick the cabinet secretary, who serves as his chief spokesman and chief of staff, from among his own party members who know him well, they said. As for the foreign ministerial post, Michihiko Kano, a lower house legislator who recently defected from the primary opposition Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) to form a new party called New Party Mirai (Future), and Motoo Shiina, an independent international-minded House of Councillors member, are being considered as possible replacements to Hata, the sources said. There are some within the coalition that expect Tomiichi Murayama, chairman of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) [of Japan -- SDPJ], the largest group in the coalition, to assume the post of deputy premier currently held by Hata. Murayama, however, is reacting with reluctance toward the idea, while placing the priority on party business, the sources said. The SDP is the only coalition party whose chief does not hold a ministerial post in the present seven-party coalition.
