FBIS3-24610 "jpust007___94061" JPRS-UST-94-007 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Central Eurasia 22 March 1994 LIFE SCIENCES MEDICINE AND PUBLIC HEALTH Mathematical Modeling of Thermochemical Processes During Thermokeratocoagulation 937C0432A Moscow OFTALMOKHIRURGIYA in Russian No. 3, Mar 92 (manuscript received 8 May 91) pp 8-13 937C0432A Moscow OFTALMOKHIRURGIYA Language: Russian Article Type:CSO [Article by S. N. Fedorov, A. I. Ivashina, Ye. G. Antonova, N. K. Korshunova, N. A. Bozhkov, V. M. Karpov, and G. A. Bezruk; MNTK ``Mikrokhirurgiya glaza'' [Eye Microsurgery], Moscow; UDC 617.753.1-089:612.015.35] [Abstract] Studying the processes of compound heat transfer and biochemical transformations in the coagulated area are of fundamental importance in providing a scientific framework for surgery, predicting its outcome, optimizing its conditions, and reducing post-operative complications. This paper discusses a mathematical model of thermokeratocoagulation in terms of thermochemistry and shows how operating conditions may affect the size of the tissue damage zone. The authors developed the TERMO-K program system for the IBM PC AT to run their model. The user inputs data about the operating conditions and the design features of the needle, and the model predicts the size and character of the resultant tissue damage zone by simulating the thermal coagulator operation. From the model, the authors found linear relationships between increases in the initial needle temperature and the exposure time and tissue damage. They also found a positive correlation between the radial size of coagulation and its volume. In a comparison of modeled results with experimental studies, the authors found qualitative agreement in the effects of initial needle temperature on the radial size of coagulation. The thermochemical model and the TERMO-K system can be used to refine the thermokeratocolagulation procedure and may be adapted for analysis of intrastromal keratocoagulation, laser coagulation, keratoconus therapy, and other surgical techniques involving thermal effects on the cornea. Figures 6; references 17: 10 Russian, 7 Western.
