FBIS4-63775 "drsov101_e_94009" FBIS-SOV-94-101 Daily Report 23 May 1994 UKRAINE International Affairs Deputy Minister Says GATT Membership `Top Priority' Issue Deputy Minister Says GATT Membership `Top Priority' Issue WS2405112394 Kiev UKRINFORM in English 1940 GMT 23 May 94 WS2405112394 Kiev UKRINFORM English BFN [From the "Business News Weekly" feature No. 21, 16-22 May 94] [Text] The mid-April GATT meeting in Morocco, which was attended by delegations of about 140 member nations, resulted in signing an agreement on institution of the World Trade Organisation [WTO] which ushered in a new era of global trade, tariff, custom, investment and other economic relations. Henceforth, GATT/WTO will assume UN-like dimensions with its member nations accounting for over 90 per cent of global trade turn-over. The so multitudinous membership leaves but a handful of nations outside the GATT/WTO structure. Nineteen more nations are presently officializing their accedence to it, Russia, Belarus and Ukraine included. Russia started the process on 16 June 1993. Ukraine, who assumed the GATT observer status on 14 July 1992, started its similar process of accedence to GATT only on 17 December 1993. Russia is widely expected to accede to GATT/WTO as a full-fledged member before 1994 elapses. Ukraine is only drafting its memorandum of foreign trade, the key document necessary for accedence to GATT. According to Serhiy Osyka, Ukraine's Deputy Minister for foreign economic relations and GATT permanent representative, the longer Ukraine contents itself with the role of an outsider, the more difficult the process will be of normalizing its trade and economic relations with GATT/WTO member nations including Ukraine's neighbors, Russia and Belarus. The Ukrainian official sounds very pessimistic on Ukraine's bilateral economic agreements and their efficiency in Ukraine gaining the MFN [Most-Favored Nation] status, which invariably presupposes full-fledged GATT membership. Mr. Osyka urges top priority to be assigned by the Ukrainian leadership to Ukraine's accedence to GATT/WTO, moreover so that the world community is ready and willing to assist Ukraine is so doing. The Ukrainian delegation to GATT is reported to have stepped up of late its efforts toward the speediest possible officialization of Ukraine's accedence to GATT/WTO. Technical aid to Ukraine may assume a more tangible dimension, when Ukraine's interdepartmental commission for accedence to GATT/WTO visits Washington, DC, in early June. A visit is also contemplated to be paid to Kiev by a team of experts with the US mission to Geneva and officers of the GATT Secretariat for meetings with top Ukrainian officials in late May.
