FBIS3-37016 "drsov030_a_94029" FBIS-SOV-94-030 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Feb 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Official Comments on Visit LD1202151194 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1415 GMT 12 Feb 94 LD1202151194 Moscow ITAR-TASS Language: English Article Type:BFN [By ITAR-TASS diplomatic correspondent Aleksandr Krylovich] [Text] Moscow February 12 TASS -- An official Russian visit of British Prime Minister John Major is expected to result in signing of two intergovernmental documents to consolidate the Russian- British agreement relations, director of the Russian Foreign Ministry's Second European Department Yuriy Fokin told ITAR-TASS here today. The finalization of a convention against double taxation is of special importance, as the document will help to regulate economic and financial relations. The second document will be a framework agreement on cooperation in education, science and culture. Both documents have been fully prepared for signing by foreign ministers in the presence of the Russian and British leaders. In the opinion of the diplomat, there are no serious problems in the Russian-British relations. "All major stumbling stones have been removed," he said. As for international issues, the Russian Foreign Ministry hopes to discuss the European situation, including the creation of security system and development of Russian relations with "the seven". The latter may become "the eight" in future. The sides will also focus on Russian and British future actions at the U.N. Security Council or CSCE. The British prime minister will be informed about the Russian situation and its relations with former Soviet republics. A special item on the agenda will be relations with the Baltic states, where "considerable progress has been achieved". The Baltic theme will also be analyzed by Russian Foreign Minister Andrey Kozyrev and British Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs Douglas Hurd. The latter will leave Moscow for Riga on February 16 to meet foreign ministers of the three Baltic republics. "Russia and Great Britain have long discussed the Baltic issue and Russia is grateful for British readiness to help settlement of the remaining problems," said Fokin. In his words, the negotiations may result in signing of other documents, including those on security.
