FBIS3-15907 "drsov048_b_94003" FBIS-SOV-94-048 Document Type:Daily Report 11 Mar 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political Issues Chermomyrdin Criticized LD1003150194 Moscow Mayak Radio Network in Russian 1317 GMT 10 Mar 94 LD1003150194 Moscow Mayak Radio Network Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Text] A meeting was held in the Kremlin today between Russian President Boris Yeltsin and representatives of various public movements, the Federation Council, Duma factions, and the government. It was devoted to preparing a draft memorandum on civic accord and peace. Understandably, an issue of this importance embraces a whole range of problems, and the crisis in the fuel and energy complex may be considered a problem of the first order. This issue was also discussed at the meeting. On the telephone, especially for Mayak, is Aleksandr Sergeyev, chairman of the Russian Independent Miners Union. [Sergeyev] The president said that this morning he signed an edict on raising the accountability of employers for the untimely payment of wages. He demanded that the procuracy and courts take effective steps, and observe the legislation, the violation of which has taken on massive dimensions in Russia too. He also said that it was necessary to take immediate measures to stabilize the banking system and turned to Chernomyrdin, who was present at this meeting, asking why he was taking such a long time to make these decisions. That was just the first reaction of the president to what is going on in the coal mining regions, and I hope that in the near future edicts will be published on raising accountability for nonpayment for fuel and nonpayment by coal consumers, and also raising accountability for holding up the processing of payments in the banking system. At least, I got the impression that the government had already prepared these proposals in principle and that the question is when it is going to be signed. Despite this, however, I still feel that the situation remains very critical, and even the middle of March will be very serious. If the government does not take measures like these to stabilize the economic situation the strikes will take on an even more massive and threatening nature.
