FBIS4-4038 "drchi082_k_94004" FBIS-CHI-94-082 Daily Report 28 Apr 1994 NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political & Social Zhu Rongji Fires Heilongjiang Governor `Face-to-Face' Zhu Rongji Fires Heilongjiang Governor `Face-to-Face' HK2804033794 Hong Kong HSIN PAO in Chinese 28 Apr 94 p 17 HK2804033794 Hong Kong HSIN PAO Chinese BFN ["China's Politics and Economy" column by Hua Hsia (5478 1115): "Zhu Rongji Again Shows the True Qualities of a Czar"] [Text] Faced with the grim economic situation, Vice Premier Zhu Rongji has once again shown the true qualities of an economic czar. From 12 to 17 April, Zhu Rongji inspected Heilongjiang Province, dismissed Governor Sun Weiben from office face-to-face, and ordered former Liaoning Governor Yue Qifeng to take over the post of Heilongjiang governor. This move caused great shock in the CPC's internal circles, because since the founding of communist China there has never been a central leader who ordered the dismissal of a provincial governor face-to-face. Zhu Rongji's inspection tour of Heilongjiang and his face-to-face dismissal of a provincial governor is unprecedented in the history of the CPC. He was very high-handed. During the inspection tour of Heilongjiang, Zhu Rongji took with him a dozen heads of ministries and commissions; the entourage, powerful and mighty, went directly to local places to inspect work and give instructions. The work style was highly efficient and very decisive. There are two main reasons for such a show of force. First, the leadership in Beijing wants to assert its authority and pose in a way which shows that the central leadership can control the overall situation and manipulate it easily, so as to strike at the recent arrogance of local economic lords. When the National People's Congress was underway in March, Zhu Rongji severely criticized the often self-important Guangdong Province. Zhu Rongji accused the money-rich Guangdong of frequently going to various provinces to buy grain, to the extent of triggering a rapid increase in grain prices and disturbing the people's minds. Zhu Rongji said to the Guangdong delegation that if Guangdong has the money, it may buy grain from foreign countries, but it should not act recklessly on the mainland. His words created an unharmonious atmosphere. Another reason is that Heilongjiang has many state enterprises, and therefore it is a very heavy burden; these enterprises keep asking for money from the central leadership, causing great trouble for Beijing. Consequently, Beijing decided to change the governor in the hope that the move can open a way for Heilongjiang.
