FBIS3-3310 "drchi054_a_94005" FBIS-CHI-94-054 Document Type:Daily Report 19 Mar 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS General U.S. Treasury Official Comments on APEC Meeting OW1903162194 Beijing XINHUA in English 1354 GMT 19 Mar 94 OW1903162194 Beijing XINHUA Language: English Article Type:BFN ["APEC Dialogue Can Be Fruitful, Says U.S. Official" -- XINHUA headline] [Text] Honolulu, March 18 (XINHUA) -- U.S. Treasury Undersecretary Lawrence Summers expressed optimism here today about tomorrow's meeting of finance ministers of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) countries. He told a press conference that "we expect very fruitful dialogue at the meeting", which "will cover the issue of maintaining growth, the issue of external finance and the issues connective with domestic capital market development." However, Summers said that the goal is not "to reach any dramatic new agreement, but rather for the ministers to gain an understanding of each other's problems and each other's needs." "This is not a form for discussion of financial services issues, the exchange rate or current account issues," he added. Summers is here with Secretary of the Treasury Lloyd Bentsen to attend the first APEC finance ministers meeting. Before his departure for Honolulu yesterday Bentsen also stressed that the meeting is "an important precedent, because we've never all been in the same room at the same time." However, during bilateral talks prior to the official meeting, some APEC ministers said they don't want to see the meeting formalized due to the diversity of development in the region. This conference of APEC finance ministers is an outcome of the APEC leadership meeting in Seattle last November, hosted by U.S. President Bill Clinton. Finance ministers participating include those from Australia, Brunei, Canada, China, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Japan, the Republic of Korea, Malaysia, Mexico, New Zealand, Papua New Guinea, the Philippines, Singapore, Chinese Taipei, Thailand and the United States. Chile has been invited as an observer pending APEC membership in 1995.
