FBIS3-25362 "drafr032_e_94011" FBIS-AFR-94-032 Document Type:Daily Report 16 Feb 1994 WEST AFRICA Togo CEN, Party Leaders Meet To Discuss Elections, Violence AB1502192294 Lome Radio Lome in French 1230 GMT 15 Feb 94 AB1502192294 Lome Radio Lome Language: French Article Type:BFN [Text] Five days to the second round of legislative elections and there is a return to political violence in Togo. It is perhaps in an attempt to ward off excesses of this kind that a meeting was convened today. It was attended by members of the National Electoral Commission [CEN] and members of the various political parties. Gege Adjavon reports. [Begin Adjavon recording] In effect, conscious of the tense atmosphere in which the candidates and political parties are preparing for the second ballot, the CEN deems it fit to seek together with party leaders the means and ways of preventing or reducing significantly the irregularities that marred the first ballot. Mr. Sipohon Kue Gaba, the NEC chairman, believes that although the successful outcome of the ongoing process will not solve all the problems, it constitutes an important and indispensable stage for the establishment of the institutions of the Fourth Republic. Mr. Sipohon Kue Gaba did not keep mute over the assassination of the deputy-elect for Yoto, Edeh Gaston Aziandouvo as well as two other members of the Action Committee for Renewal. This odious and sordid act, condemned by the whole political class and the entire Togolese people cannot go unpunished. In collaboration with the government, the CEN will do everything in its power to contribute to the search for the culprits. At the beginning of this meeting, the leaders of the 13 political parties present and CEN members observed a minute's silence in memory of those who died as victims of terrorist acts and political crimes aimed at destabilizing the public authorities and preventing the successful outcome of the ongoing democratic process. A prayer was also said at the beginning of this meeting. [end recording]
