FBIS3-45155 "drchi009_w_94002" FBIS-CHI-94-009 Document Type:Daily Report 13 Jan 1994 HONG KONG & MACAO Hong Kong UK Responds to PRC Passport Proposals HK1301070094 Hong Kong SOUTH CHINA MORNING POST in English 13 Jan 94 p 1 HK1301070094 Hong Kong SOUTH CHINA MORNING POST Language: English Article Type:BFN [By Fanny Wong] [Text] China should agree to expert meetings "in the very near future" to sort out the problem of Special Administrative Region (SAR) passports, the office of the British Joint Liaison Group (JLG) team leader, Hugh Davies, said yesterday. A statement said he had been waiting for months for a Chinese response to comprehensive proposals forwarded to Beijing. London had also offered again without responses to send Director of Immigration Laurence Leung Mingyin to Beijing for talks. Governor Chris Patten yesterday said: "In view of what's being said about people going to Beijing, I'd just like to make that absolutely clear and say that, alas, we haven't had a positive response yet. "But I very much hope that Director Lu Ping's remarks yesterday, coming as they do after what we've been saying for the last few months, represent a Chinese response which (we) will be able to follow up, because it is the sort of area where we should be able to co-operate in the interests of (the) people of Hong Kong on an issue about which everybody feels very strongly." Mr. Lu said yesterday China wanted to issue SAR passports before the 1997 change-over and appealed for Britain's co-operation in supplying information. The British JLG statement said Mr Lu's remarks were "noted with interest". Following agreement on transitional arrangements for the continued validity after July 1, 1997 of existing travel documents issued by the Hong Kong Government, Britain had put detailed and comprehensive proposals to China on July 15 last year. "Our proposals dealt with such issues as eligibility criteria, types of travel document and period of validity." The statement said the British side had sought detailed expert discussions on these matters as soon as possible so that the documents could be issued immediately from July 1, 1997.
