FBIS4-63351 "drsov099_a_94015" FBIS-SOV-94-099 Daily Report 20 May 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Grachev To Propose Alternative Partnership Plan to NATO Grachev To Propose Alternative Partnership Plan to NATO LD2005140694 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1316 GMT 20 May 94 LD2005140694 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Andrey Palariya] [Text] Moscow May 20 TASS -- "Russia is interested in a more serious and substantial format of relations with NATO than the Partnership for Peace program envisions," Russian Defence Minister, Army General Pavel Grachev announced today. "This approach, in our view, rules out surprises and unilateral measures, especially of military character, in the fields in which we must cooperate as closely as possible," General Grachev said after his meeting with French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe. "We will put forth another plan for partnership, which has already been approved by the president of Russia," Grachev indicated. Its basic principles consist in Russia's joining the program with account being taken of its significant role and place in the European security system and the United Nations. In addition, Russia cannot limit itself to the signing of the standard framework document, the minister said. "We shall work to prepare a larger-scale program of cooperation between Russia and NATO, based on parameters of practical participation in its implementation," the Russian minister stressed. These parameters are political partnership, partnership in the military and other fields. On their basis, "we shall propose drawing up a large-scale program for Russia's cooperation with Partnership for Peace. Only if they are approved, Russia will be able to sign the NATO program," Grachev said. The minister said he would also set out in his report at NATO headquarters in Brussels on May 24 Russia's views on prospects for the development of the European security system. The accent will be placed on the need to ensure the leading role of the Conference of Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE) in the process of forming a regional security system for the Commonwealth member-states within the collective security treaty, as well as on Russia's vision of the main parameters of cooperation with the North Atlantic alliance. Grachev reiterated that his main objective was to tell NATO about the main provisions of the Russian military doctrine.
