FBIS4-56927 "drlat091_j_94008" FBIS-LAT-94-091 Daily Report 10 May 1994 Panama Foreign Minister on Designation of U.S. Envoy Foreign Minister on Designation of U.S. Envoy PA1105012594 Panama City Circuito RPC Television in Spanish 2300 GMT 10 May 94 PA1105012594 Panama City Circuito RPC Television Spanish BFN [Report by Ciro Ortega; from the "RPC Television News" newscast] [Text] Panamanian Foreign Minister Jose Raul Mulino has said the placet for the new U.S. ambassador to Panama will be issued this week. The foreign minister has said the advancement of diplomatic relations with the United States is vital for the transition period that will lead to the handing over of the Panama Canal during the year 2000. Mulino has said the placet will be given to the U.S. ambassador to Panama who will replace Deane Hinton, most likely Robert Pastor. [Begin recording] [Mulino] I think it is most important to maintain close relations with the United States during the coming five-year period. I think President-elect Perez Balladares will need that. This is a fundamental task. Once they assume the government, they will see the task involving the canal issue is huge and requires much tending; because of this, President Endara and I will evaluate this appointment on 12 May. [Ortega] How is the transition for the Foreign Ministry to the next government progressing? [Mulino] Yesterday, I personally called my successor, my great and good friend Gabriel Lewis Galindo, who has confirmed to me he will be the next foreign minister, to put my working team, our experience, and our cooperation at his disposal so that when he takes over the Foreign Ministry on 2 September he may routinely go to work ignoring nothing about the international negotiations we are conducting or the integration processes in which we are engaged with Colombia and Central America. I will also give him certain recommendations, in writing, on the canal issue and on the modernization the Foreign Ministry requires, modernization we have been unable to make due to economic limitations. [end recording]
