FBIS4-39409 "drsov110_b_94019" FBIS-SOV-94-110 Daily Report 7 Jun 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Economic Issues Practical Effect of Bankruptcy Edict Explained Practical Effect of Bankruptcy Edict Explained PM0706100994 Moscow ROSSIYSKIYE VESTI in Russian 7 Jun 94 p 1 PM0706100994 Moscow ROSSIYSKIYE VESTI Russian BFN [Nikolay Gorlov report: "Debtors Should Be Bought By Tender"] [Text] Russian President Boris Yeltsin signed the edict "On the Sale of State Debtor Enterprises" 2 June. Sergey Belyayev, general director of the Federal Administration for Insolvency (Bankruptcy), comments on it. "The new presidential edict marks the start of practical selective [selektivnyy] work to restructure industry. Let me say right away that it will not be a case of treating everyone alike. For instance, there are enterprises owed money by the budget. Naturally, an entirely different approach will be taken with them. "Clearly, a general point will be that labor agreements with the leaders of insolvent enterprises will be torn up and management transferred to a newly created collective organ with the participation of state representatives. "In principle the sales procedure laid down in the edict is aimed at preventing bankruptcies. I am confident that many enterprises and their leaders who receive insolvency notices will themselves try to get out of the danger zone. "As I have already said, the measures stipulated by our legislation will be taken against those for whom this proves too much. Incidentally, apart from selling off enterprises, there could also be decisions on state support, reorganization, and so forth. "Talking specifically about the sale of enterprises, this is a question of espousing the generally accepted world practice and moving to a fundamentally new type of privatization. Any corporate bodies or individuals will be able to take part in the tenders -- including foreigners, who are permitted to do so under existing regulations. "A whole host of extra conditions -- on the procedure for repaying debts, on investment, the retention of jobs, and so forth -- may be stipulated when a debtor enterprise is being sold off."
