FBIS4-40006 "drsov113_f_94021" FBIS-SOV-94-113 Daily Report 13 Jun 1994 National Affairs Acting Socialist Party Chairman Holds News Conference Acting Socialist Party Chairman Holds News Conference WS1306093694 Donetsk DONETSKIY KRYAZH in Russian 27 May-2 Jun 94 p 1 WS1306093694 Donetsk DONETSKIY KRYAZH Russian BFN [Report by Nikolay Zabirko] [Text] There can be different attitudes toward the suspension of political activities by Oleksandr Moroz, chairman of the Political Committee of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, who has decided to focus on issues of the state at large. It is common knowledge that foreign parties' leaders do not act in this way. Apparently, this is why a news conference began with the reading of a statement issued by the political committee, and only then did Sergey Kiyashko -- who is acting as chairman until another Socialist Party Congress -- brief attendees on the first weeks of the new parliament's work, and in particular, the socialist faction's activities, as well as answer questions from journalists. He said that Oleksandr Moroz does not intend to drop out of the presidential race. In his opinion, the election should be held in June. Later, Yuriy Boldyrev, member of the "Yednist" parliamentary group which unites entrepreneurs, also appeared at the House of Public Organizations' conference room. On property issues, the group sympathizes with the right wing, and on cultural ones, as Boldyrev said, it is ready to cooperate with the left wing. In general, the answers could give the impression that the division and search for compromises in the parliament are still continuing. Members of the Labor Party, for example, have joined various factions. Judging from all signs, fruitful legislative work will begin no time soon. The presence of regular party members at the news conference was unusual. So was the presence of Donetsk Oblast Council Chairman V. Chuprun, who enjoys the socialists' support in the election for oblast leader. V. Chuprun reported that a regular session of representatives of 10 bordering Russian and Ukrainian oblasts will be held in Donetsk on 27 May.
