FBIS4-31544 "dreeu112_d_94007" FBIS-EEU-94-112 Daily Report 9 Jun 1994 SLOVAKIA Kanis: Defense Capability Unaffected by Cuts Kanis: Defense Capability Unaffected by Cuts LD0906121194 Bratislava Rozhlasova Stanica Slovensko Network in Slovak 1000 GMT 9 Jun 94 LD0906121194 Bratislava Rozhlasova Stanica Slovensko Network in Slovak 1000 GMT 9 Jun 94 Slovak BFN [Interview with Defense Minister Pavol Kanis by correspondent Milan Velecky at the Turecky vrch military training area near Bratislava on 8 June--recorded] [Excerpts] [Velecky] At your press conference, you said that Slovakia did not have the financial means even to maintain the kind of army allowed by international agreements. Couldn't this have a negative impact on the defense capability of our state? [Kanis] Naturally, in the prevailing peaceful conditions, when there are prerequisites for stability based on peaceful coexistence, as well as for stability and security of individual countries, the demands on the numbers of servicemen are no longer the same as in the previous historical stage. Of course, just like any other army in the neighboring states, the Slovak Army has problems arising from the lack of financial resources. But even if we cut the numbers of servicemen, it will not affect the defense capability of our country because our neighbors are doing the same. Moreover, at the moment, the whole question is an open one. It is a public issue under international control, and therefore our defense is also ensured through checks on the effort made in this sphere by other states. We do not have to worry, therefore, that Slovakia's defense capability will be affected as a result of a reduction in the number of servicemen. [Velecky] An amendment to the law on the state budget is being prepared, and it has been suggested that some of the resources alloted to the Army for this year should be cut. What preparations for this variant are you making? [Kanis] It is true that the situation in education and the health service, in particular, is so serious that the government has to find the necessary financial resources to prevent the collapse of these two areas. [passage omitted] Naturally, if my budget is cut, I would endeavor to make up for it somehow--for example, by importing spare parts or technology instead of repayments from the Russian Federation. A contract for $(?90) million has been prepared, and this should cover at least some of our needs. At the same time, we have to make the Army more proactive in generating income of its own. One has to say quite openly, however, that the needs of the Army have not been properly taken into account for some years, and, therefore, it is now extremely important that next year's budget respect the needs of the defense capability of the Slovak Republic.
