FBIS3-4211 "drchi059_u_94002" FBIS-CHI-94-059 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Mar 1994 PRC MEDIA ON TAIWAN AFFAIRS XINHUA Possesses `No Optimism' for ARATS-SEF Meeting OW2503183894 Beijing XINHUA Domestic Service in Chinese 0836 GMT 25 Mar 94 OW2503183894 Beijing XINHUA Domestic Service Language: Chinese Article Type:BFN [Text] Beijing, 25 Mar (XINHUA) -- Based on the common understanding reached this February between the Association for Relations Across the Taiwan Strait [ARATS] and Taiwan's Straits Exchange Foundation [SEF] in the "Joint Press Release of Tang Shubei and Jiao Renhe," the two organizations will began holding their fourth working level talks today on issues that include the fishery dispute between the two sides of the Strait. However, due to moves by Taiwan prior to its delegates' departure for Beijing to "veto part of the Tang-Jiao common understanding," there is no optimism for reaching an agreement during the current talks. At the conclusion of the Tang-Jiao talks this February, Taiwan described the "Joint Press Release" as a having developed a "great degree of common understanding" between the two sides. Huang Kunhui, chairman of the "Mainland Affairs Council [MAC]," and others gave it a "high degree of affirmation." However, according to Taiwan press reports, part of the common understanding reached during the Tang-Jiao talks was vetoed in mid-March during a meeting convened by MAC, and attended by such as the "National Security Bureau [NSB]" and "Ministry of Justice [MOJ]," to discuss strategies to be adopted at the forthcoming fourth round of talks between the two organizations. This caused "great shock" among the SEF delegates to the talks. Complying with a top SEF official's request, "MAC" called a special meeting again on 19 March. However, departments such as "NSB" and "MOJ" again made firm demands for rights, including jurisdiction over judicial matters," thus "overturning the important common understanding over the three issues formed during the Tang-Jiao talks." They also claimed they wanted to "maintain the bottom line of the two organizations' Taibei [Taipei] talks on the premise of giving consideration to the dignity of the rights of jurisdiction over legal matters." Commenting on this, the Taiwan press noted that by overturning the common understanding reached in the Tang-Jiao talks, Taiwan will cast variables in reaching an agreement during the two organizations' fourth round of talks and will create pre-talks tension.
