FBIS3-27739 "dreas020_n_94002" FBIS-EAS-94-020 Document Type:Daily Report 31 Jan 1994 Vietnam U.S. Radio Free Asia, Human Rights Criticized Station Commentary BK3101124594 Hanoi Voice of Vietnam in English 1000 GMT 31 Jan 94 BK3101124594 Hanoi Voice of Vietnam Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] The U.S. Senate has voted to set up a Radio Free Asia. Following is our radio comment on the issue: BBC Radio last weekend described the radio service as the plan belonging to right-wing Americans who [word indistinct] or to popularize American ideal and way of life. The spokesman for the Chinese Government declared that the decision trampled upon the principle of international relations and interfered in the internal affairs of China and other Asian countries. China demanded that the decision be reversed. The People's Democratic Republic of Korea or North Korea and Myanmar [Burma] also voiced disagreement, and some Americans also rejected the move of the U.S. Senate. It is believed that the establishment of the radio is the form of the old cold war, and it is not useful and appreciable especially when economic ties between the U.S. and Asia are developing. A spokesman for the Vietnamese Foreign Ministry said: The American radio service harms not only socioeconomic development of Asian countries but also relations between the United States and these countries. The decision to set up Radio Free Asia is rejected in Asia and by some American people. After the cold war, the situation in the world and in Asia has changed. Asia has become a more peaceful, stable, developing, and dynamic zone in comparision with other regions. Therefore, all countries in the region wish to broaden multilateral and diversify cooperation relations in order to defend peace and security. Many other countries in the world and the U.S.A. welcome and respect this intention. As a result, the establishment of Radio Free Asia will run counter to this trend and will worsen positive development between U.S.A. and Asian countries.
