FBIS3-35415 "drnes037_k_94006" FBIS-NES-94-037 Document Type:Daily Report 24 Feb 1994 IRAQ Columnist Slams UN Human Rights Envoy's `Allegations' JN2302165894 Baghdad AL-THAWRAH in Arabic 17 Feb 94 p 7 JN2302165894 Baghdad AL-THAWRAH Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN ["Sidelines" column by Sabri Hammadi:"Van Der Stoel, the Reckless!"] [Text] Since being informed of his appointment to report on Iraqi human rights, Van Der Stoel has not left the United Nations in peace. He has appeared overly enthusiastic about his mission, rash and reckless in his behavior and statements, and unusually unbalanced. These actions have irritated the UN secretary general, prompting him to strongly criticize Van Der Stoel's actions and tell the ambassadors of the four big powers at a meeting once that he knows Van Der Stoel personally, as a classmate, and that he knows the man is "reckless and unobjective." This, then, is Van Der Stoel; reckless and unobjective as certified by UN Secretary General Dr. Butrus Ghali himself. This is why Van Der Stoel has not stopped creating furors and fabricating false allegations against Iraq. This is not all Butrus-Ghali said about Van Der Stoel. He also added: "Van Der Stoel thinks that Iraqi human rights issue is the only human rights issue in the world!" So why does this Dutch crow keep squawking and lamenting Iraqi human rights, and why doesn't he also mention Western imperialism's violation of these rights? What is the secret behind Van Der Stoel's reckless, unobjective, and unusually enthusiastic attitude toward the so-called Iraqi human rights issue? We the Iraqis, who have not appointed Van Der Stoel to defend our rights, and who refuse to have this reckless man as our trustee, have the right to assume that Van Der Stoel has received $1 million, or a sum close to that figure, from the Al Sabah and Al Sa'ud families. We must assume that it is this money that has made him reckless and overly enthusiastic to the point of losing his balance and objectivity and behaving in this irresponsible way. It is also our right to assume that Van Der Stoel has come under pressure from the Zionist lobby, and that it is this lobby that is manipulating him and pushing him to cause problems and make baseless accusations. In short, we refuse to have this reckless and unobjective character as trustee of our rights. Besides, who told them that our rights need a reporter or a defender?!
