FBIS4-15689 "drsov069_v_94006" FBIS-SOV-94-069 Daily Report 8 Apr 1994 Lithuania Landsbergis on Opposition Statement on Defense Landsbergis on Opposition Statement on Defense WS1104091394 Vilnius ELTA in English 2114 GMT 8 Apr 94 WS1104091394 Vilnius ELTA English BFN [From "News Bulletin" No. 474] [Text] Vilnius, April 8, ELTA -- Seimas [parliament] opposition leader Vytautas Landsbergis commented a statement signed by five factions of opposition "On tensions in national defence structures". Authors of the statement -- elders of the Motherland's Union, Christian Democratic, Lithuanian Nationalists, Democratic and Freedom factions -- have said that various facts including searches in flats of military officers violating the Constitution are showing artificially created tensions. The document said that "one of basic sources of the tension is the present activity of Seimas National security committee and its leading group, the wrong way chosen to exceed powers of parliamentary control and to take on functions of executive power." That is why "distrust in the chairman of the committee grew up as well as the necessity to change the composition of the committee," the opposition said. Landsbergis told the news conference the committee, instead of preparing documents for the programme "Partnership for Peace," national security concept and other strategic documents, was seeking to take over the management of the whole national defence system. Asked by journalists Landsbergis said the Motherland's Union was not approving the procedure of non-confidence in the present government launched by social-democrats. "We are for moral and political interpellation to the ruling Democratic Labour Party (LDDP) but not to the government of Adolfas Slezevicius", he explained. He also said he did not see any "reserves for ruling party to form a better government". He hinted that "Motherland's Union plans to make a very clear and concrete step concerning political future of Lithuania next week."
