FBIS3-61036 "jpuma002___94014" JPRS-UMA-94-002 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Central Eurasia Military Affairs 5 January 1994 STATE AND LOCAL MILITARY FORCES CAUCASIAN STATES Activities of Armenian Military Preparatory School 944K0439C Yerevan HAYASTANI HANRAPETUTYUN in Armenian 15 Oct 93 p 4 944K0439C Yerevan HAYASTANI HANRAPETUTYUN Language: Armenian Article Type:CSO [Text] Two years ago the special republican boarding school named after Field Marshal Hamazasp Babajanian [Babadzhanyan], a former Commander of the Armored and Tank Troops, was converted into a boarding school for military training by the decision of the Armenian Government. On October 18 the school will hold a ceremony whereby 100 students who have passed their examinations will take their oath to serve their homeland selflessly. Vrezh Hovhannisian, the commandant of the [school] battalion, told the correspondent of NOYYAN TAPAN: "The students at the school have their own special military uniform. They specialize in military science and physical education. The young men are trained in judo, hand-to-hand combat, mountain climbing, swimming, light athletics and skiing. The specialization subjects are taught by officers and athletics instructors. Special attention is paid to the teaching of English and Russian. In the future it is planned to teach the languages of countries neighboring Armenia. The school admits those 14 to 16-year-old young men who possess the appropriate physical and mental capabilities." The director of the school has visited a U.S. military base where he observed first-hand the methods of training American professional soldiers. According to the Commandant, some of the school's graduates have entered the school of the Karabakh liberation struggle and participated in numerous tough battles. The school has also signed agreements with Russian military training institutions, whereby the graduates of the school are able to continue their education at those institutions. The Armenian Ministry of Defense will pay for the expenses of such continued training.
