FBIS4-27619 "dreas106_c_94001" FBIS-EAS-94-106 Daily Report 2 Jun 1994 North Korea Daily Says U.S. Cannot `Justify' Military Option Daily Says U.S. Cannot `Justify' Military Option SK0206052294 Pyongyang KCNA in English 0515 GMT 2 Jun 94 SK0206052294 Pyongyang KCNA English BFN ["U.S. Military Option Can Never Be Justified" -- KCNA headline] [Text] Pyongyang, June 2 (KCNA) -- NODONG SINMUN today lambastes the bellicose outcries of U.S. hardline conservative forces driving the situation on the Korean peninsula into extremes. U.S. Secretary of Defense William Perry recently took issue again with the "nuclear issue" of the DPRK. Talking about a "critical situation" which might be created in case "sanctions" are taken against the DPRK, he ordered a foreward deployment of the extra- large aircraft carrier in a place where it can launch into an operation on the Korean peninsula in a few days. Meanwhile, U.S. Senator McCain called for deploying additional U.S. forces in South Korea and exercising "military strength," arguing that the peaceful nuclear program of the DPRK was a "threat" to U.S. security. The daily brands this as a criminal move to commit an adventurous military action against the DPRK over the "nuclear issue." The news analyst says: A few days ago, the spokesman for the International Atomic Energy Agency and the official of the White House in charge of national security said they believed the DPRK did not divert nuclear fuel to other purposes. Nevertheless, the U.S. hardline conservatives describe the DPRK's nuclear program as a "factor of threat to the U.S. security." This is a reversed logic of a brigand. It goes without saying that this is an intrigue to justify their attempt at isolating and stifling the DPRK, branding it as "nuclear criminal." It does not make sense at all that the DPRK which has no nuclear weapon and is engaged only in peaceful nuclear activities poses a "threat" to the United States far away across the ocean. To talk about "threat to the United States" from the DPRK is as shameless as a murderer accusing the victim of a crime. The campaign of the U.S. hardline conservative forces is a despicable and vulgar act aimed at raising the prestige of the U.S. military by deliberately aggravating the situation on the Korean peninsula and getting reward for their service for the arms trade of U.S. munitions monopolies. With nothing can the United States justify its military option. We are not afraid of any "military strength" and will sternly counter it.
