FBIS4-20591 "jpjst012__l94024" JPRS-JST-94-012-L JPRS Science & Technology Japan 14 April 1994 Advanced Materials Cluster Calculation of the Electronic Structure of the Cluster Calculation of the Electronic Structure of the Icosahedral Boron 43070061V Tokyo ISBB'93 in English Aug 93 p 101--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 43070061V Tokyo ISBB'93 English CSO [English abstract of article by Hirohide Nakamatsu, Institute of Chemical Research, Kyoto University; and Koun Shirai, Institute of Scientific and Industrial Research, Osaka] [Text] There are two different and complementary approaches to study electronic structure of solids, i.e., band theory and the molecular orbital (MO) method. The MO cluster calculations which treat a small fraction of a crystal can clarify the aspect of chemical bond correlated with the electronic structures, providing the description in the real space. The MO approach is more desirable for understanding of boron and boron-rich compound solids containing the icosahedron because of their rather complicated crystal structure. Indeed, the concept of the MO's in the icosahedral B[.sub]12[/] unit successfully explains the properties of these materials: insulating property, stability of the structure of _a_-rhombohedral B type, and forming of the so-called three-center bond. This groundwork was done by Longuet-Higgins and Roberts many years ago.[.sup]1[/] Although their discussion on the electronic structure is complete from the standpoint of symmetry properties, there remains difficulty of numerical estimation yet. Numerical calculations will reveal detailed electronic structures of boron and bring us a quantitative account for the trends in physical properties among the boron-rich compounds (e.g., insulating or semiconducting characters). There is another reason to perform such calculations. Many experiments show that amorphous boron also belongs to semiconductor, even though there has been so far reported no explicit evidence of long periods of covalent-bond sequence in the amorphous phase. This suggests importance of the short-range order for character of these material. Therefore, it is interesting to examine change in the electronic structure with various parameters, such as bond length and local symmetry. We perform cluster calculations for the electronic structure of _a_-rhombohedral boron, using the discrete-variation (DV) X_a_ method. To carry out this study, it is very important to construct a proper model of the cluster. We adopt, as a first step, the cluster of icosahedral B[.sub]12[/] with the nearest neighbor atoms as shown in the figure. Six boron atoms are attached to the rhombohedral vertices of the centered icosahedron and twelve boron atoms are attached to the equatorial sites. Boron atoms of the latter group form the three-center bond in the x-y plane. Each boron atom of the nearest neighbor of the icosahedron is terminated by two hydrogen atoms, the geometry of which is determined by reference to the diborane molecule. Figure 1. A Proposed Cluster Model of a Boron Solid. References 1. H.C. Longuet-Higgins and M. de V. Roberts, PROC. ROY. SOC., Vol A30, 1955, p 110.
