FBIS3-9832 "dreeu061_d_94004" FBIS-EEU-94-061 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Mar 1994 SLOVAKIA Soldiers Fear Army's `Left-Wing Profile' AU2903194994 Bratislava REPUBLIKA in Slovak 25 Mar 94 p 3 AU2903194994 Bratislava REPUBLIKA Language: Slovak Article Type:BFN [Article by "rb": "The Army's Wretchedness and Glory; Association of Slovak Soldiers With the Left at the Ministry of Defense"] [Text] Bratislava--The appointment of a civilian as minister of defense means the realization by the Ministry of Defense of the Slovak Republic of the management model advocated by the Association of Slovak Soldiers [ASV] since its founding, ASV Chairman Lieutenant Colonel Milan Stegena said yesterday. Although this appointment ensures civilian control over the Army, this control remains insufficient, according to the ASV. It therefore proposes the adoption of a law on the control of the Army by the National Council of the Slovak Republic. The ASV regards as equally important the establishment of a defense committee in the parliament. In view of the political affiliation of Defense Minister Pavol Kanis, the ASV chairman expressed fear of a possible perpetuation of the left-wing profile of the Army of the Slovak Republic. "Left-wing forces are forming groups [grupuju sa] at the Ministry of Defense. I would cite the example of Professor Bartak," he said. Referring to the unsatisfactory model of management relations within the department of the Ministry of Defense of the Slovak Republic, he said that the military-political and executive components of the Army have not been consistently separated to this day. There are frequent clashes of power between the Ministry of Defense [in Bratislava] and the Command of the Army of the Slovak Republic [in Trencin]. The ASV does not want to subject the new leadership of the Ministry of Defense of the Slovak Republic to criticism during its first 100 days in office. This period will show whether visible positive changes will occur within the department.
