FBIS3-30089 "dreas038_d_94005" FBIS-EAS-94-038 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Feb 1994 South Korea Further on U.S.-DPRK Talks on Nuclear Issue North Koreans Fail To Appear SK2502082094 Seoul YONHAP in English 0618 GMT 25 Feb 94 SK2502082094 Seoul YONHAP Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Washington, Feb. 25 (YONHAP) -- North Korean officials failed to appear at the negotiating table with their U.S. counterparts on Thursday in New York, prompting the Americans to return to Washington in the evening. The U.S. officials' departure may cause a delay in nuclear inspections of North Korean facilities. The American officials, led by Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for East Asia and Pacific Affairs Tom Hubbard, were to meet with North Korean officials, headed by Deputy Chief of the North Korean mission to the United Nations Ho Chong, Thursday for the third consecutive day. The two sides were to discuss follow-up measures after Pyongyang permits nuclear inspections on March 1. A spokesman for the State Department said the U.S. officials, who waited all day at the negotiating table, were back in Washington and the U.S. side currently has no plans to meet again with North Korea. Upon returning to Washington, the U.S. negotiators expressed disappointment that North Korea is not ready to accept nuclear inspections by the International Atomic Energy Agency next week, the spokesman said. Diplomatic sources here said the North Korean officials failed to show up because they had not received instructions from Pyongyang, adding that if the North Koreans want to hold another meeting, even on Friday, it will likely take place. The issue of the Koreas' exchanging special envoys is reportedly hampering negotiations between the United States and North Korea. Under a prior agreement with Seoul, the U.S. side has said that in order to hold a third round of high-level talks between Washington and Pyongyang, the North should accept an exchange of special envoys with the South, a condition that North Korean officials have strongly rejected.
