FBIS4-9832 "drlat064_g_94008" FBIS-LAT-94-064 Daily Report 2 Apr 1994 Guatemala Congress President Condemns Court President Murder Congress President Condemns Court President Murder PA0204162894 Guatemala City Cadena de Emisoras Unidas in Spanish 1530 GMT 2 Apr 94 PA0204162894 Guatemala City Cadena de Emisoras Unidas Spanish BFN [Report by Lucia Dubon from the "News Patrol" newscast] [Text] We are starting to receive the first reactions from the political world to the murder of Constitutionality Court President Epaminondas Gonzalez Dubon. We now have statements from National Congress President Vinicio Villar Anleu condemning the murder. [Begin Villar recording] That is correct. In all actuality, once more, we must condemn these violent incidents taking place in our country. We are not just condemning the violent act against Constitutionality Court President Epaminondas Gonzalez, but acts aganst any human being, any Guatemalan. I believe we are still living in a time in which all Guatemalans must reflect, ponder, and try to live in a state of law where the law will be respected over everything else, and I think we must not take the law into our own hands. This is a very unfortunate incident. As National Congress president, I would like to take the opportunity to express my condolences to the relatives of Mr. Epaminondas Gonzalez, and most naturally to all of Guatemala for these violent incidents we are experiencing -- all of which are very unfortunate. Events like this leave a lot to be desired from a country seeking to progress through understanding and dialogue. We oppose this unfortunate act and we strongly condemn it. At the same time, we call on the executive branch to put a stop to this rise in criminal activity and to acts of violence against Guatemala's political and professional sectors. We regret what has happened and hope the government can rapidly clarify, as is done in other countries, the origins of this act, of this violent death that befell the president of the Constitutionality Court. [end recording]
