FBIS3-1620 "drchi039_n_94015" FBIS-CHI-94-039 Document Type:Daily Report 28 Feb 1994 Economic & Agricultural Agricultural Bank To Split Into Two Institutions HK2702022394 Beijing CHINA DAILY in English 26 Feb 94 p 2 HK2702022394 Beijing CHINA DAILY Language: English Article Type:BFN [By Wu Yunhe: "Agriculture Bank Due To Split Into Two Entities"] [Text] The central government will split the Agricultural Bank of China into two institutions despite its phenomenal growth. Ma Yongwei, president of the bank, said his bank will become two banks later this year in accordance with the government's call to separate the functions of government mandated agricultural loans and commercial lending. Ma said the split of his bank's business will not hurt future development. The two banks will be the Agricultural Development Bank and a new Agricultural Bank of China, the president said. Ma said it plans to vigorously develop its commercial business in foreign countries this year. The Agricultural Bank of China will soon establish two offices in Tokyo and Hong Kong to strengthen its presence in areas where the bank's major partners are located. It also plans to found three branches in New York, Hong Kong and Singapore and issue corporate bonds in Western financial markets this year. The move will further involve the Agricultural Bank of China in foreign financial markets. The Agricultural Bank of China's split follows the government's decision to forbid State policy banks from providing commercial loans. Beginning this summer, the Agricultural Development Bank will fulfill the government's policy of supplying subsidized loans to farmers. The granting of long-term, low-interest loans to farmers will remain a fundamental function of the government, according to bank officials. They noted that the 15-year-old economic reform has raised farmers living standards substantially. Bank analysts said the creation of the Agricultural Development Bank is part of the government's efforts to back agriculture while encouraging banks to do their business according to commercial practices. They noted many villages still remain undeveloped.
