FBIS4-25469 "drchi112_n_94016" FBIS-CHI-94-112 Daily Report 9 Jun 1994 Economic & Agricultural New Measures for Controlling Import, Export Prices New Measures for Controlling Import, Export Prices HK1006054194 Hong Kong ZHONGGUO TONGXUN SHE in Chinese 0900 GMT 9 Jun 94 HK1006054194 Hong Kong ZHONGGUO TONGXUN SHE Chinese BFN [Text] Beijing, 9 Jun (ZHONGGUO TONGXUN SHE) -- In order to strengthen price management over import and export trade, the relevant department of the Chinese Government recently adopted some new measures. According to ZHONGGUO XINXI BAO, the new measures mainly include three points: First, improving the import agent system. Necessary production materials and such important livelihood materials as grain, the prices of which are higher on the international market than on the domestic, should be imported through comprehensive regulations. While the import of such goods is guaranteed, their impact on domestic prices should be reduced. New management methods should be studies for importing major commodities. For example, such methods as setting up united agents and formulating average prices for agents may be adopted. Second, adopting the policy of encouraging exports and foreign exchange earning. The principles for export price management are: Promoting the increase in foreign exchange earnings through exports and export-oriented production, improving the export structure, enhancing the economic results of export trade, putting a stop to the phenomena of dumping at low prices in the export market and bidding up the prices in the domestic market. The domestic purchase price ceiling for major export goods should be based on international market prices, and the floor-level protective price should be formulated according to domestic production costs. Third, the exchange rate adjustment mechanism should be improved so that the impact of exchange rate changes on domestic prices can be brought under control. In the future, exchange rates should be determined not only by the costs of exports; consideration also should be giving to both imports and exports, as well as to non-trade projects.
