FBIS3-51728 "drlat016__a94012" FBIS-LAT-94-016-A Document Type:Daily Report 25 January 1994 ANNEX Belize Telecommunications Company Exports to Ukraine, Eyes PRC PY2101024294 Rio de Janeiro JORNAL DO BRASIL in Portuguese 20 Jan 94 p 6--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY PY2101024294 Rio de Janeiro JORNAL DO BRASIL Language: Portuguese Article Type:BFN [Text] Porto Alegre -- Digitel Electronic Industry, Inc. has shipped 250 modem units, model DT 32B, to Kiev, in the Ukraine. This is the first lot of a $500,000 export operation. The first export to eastern Europe is consigned to the UkrSots-Bank, a bank in the Ukraine. Digitel contracted with this bank to supply modem units with a speed of 14,400 bits per second for each telephone line dialed. The second largest data communications equipment manufacturer in our country, Digitel has other plans as well. Digitel President Gilberto Machado said: "We intend to transfer the technology of our products keeping in mind the huge potential for exports to the former Soviet Union." New Markets In order to gain new markets and increase the number of customers, especially in eastern Europe, Digitel participated in the Computer Science and Communications Fair held in Kiev last year. Digitel has also already signed a coopeation agreement with the Ukrainian enterprise Vector-Scientific Novation Company to represent Digitel in that country. In its strategy to diversify its exports, Digitel signed a letter of intent in December with the state-run enterprise China National Post Telecommunications, the Chinese equivalent to Embratel [Brazilian Telecommunications Company], seeking the establishment of a joint venture. The goal is to facilitate the importation of data communications equipment for a fabulous potential market in which the Chinese Government plans to invest $60 billion within the next five years. According to Gilberto Machado, after entering partnerships with six U.S. companies, Digitel will open a company of its own in Miami, in the United States. Digitel is scheduled to receive its ISO-9000 enterprise certificate (international quality certificate) in March, after one year of conforming to international standards and investing $1.6 million in equipment, training, and internal changes. Digitel's modem line has more than 20 models of high-speed and multiplexor modem units.
