FBIS3-58681 "drweu012_h_94001" FBIS-WEU-94-012 Document Type:Daily Report 19 Jan 1994 GERMANY Diplomats Begin Intensive Work for Security Council Seat AU1901154494 Berlin DIE WELT in German 19 Jan 93 p 2 AU1901154494 Berlin DIE WELT Language: German Article Type:BFN [Ruediger Moniac report: "Reserved Seat on World Security Council?"] [Text] Bonn -- The debate on the reform and enlargement of the World Security Council, which has also been eagerly expected in Bonn, will start today at the United Nations in New York. A UN committee will be set up for this purpose. As desired by FRG Foreign Minister Klaus Kinkel (Free Democratic Party of Germany), German diplomats are supposed to do intensive work in this body. They are instructed by the Federal Government to do everything over the short- and medium-term to secure a permanent seat on the Security Council, the highest UN executive body. According to the mandate of the past 48th General Assembly, the committee, in which all 184 UN member states can participate, is to meet once a week until the beginning of the 49th General Assembly in the autumn, and then it is to present a report that "will describe first possible outlines of scenarios for an enlargement of the council." According to diplomatic circles in Bonn, there is every indication that the United Nations will resolve its enlargement in 1995, its 50th anniversary. "Thus, the train of reform for the Security Council has been started. If Germany misses it, the next will presumably only be started again in 50 years," a diplomat emphasized to DIE WELT. In a draft accepted by Kinkel for the work of German diplomats in New York, it is expected that Germany will have to assume "more political, military, and financial burdens within the framework of the international community in the future" -- independently of whether Germany is a permanent Security Council member. Therefore, it is in Germany's interest "also to be able to make decisions" in the "most exclusive club" of the most important international organization. After the United States and Japan, Bonn is the third largest UN contributor, with 9 percent. Among the five permanent council members, it was the United States that applied in writing for the admission of Japan and Germany. France and Great Britain, which complete the quintet, in addition to the PRC and Russia, stated that they are not prepared for a reduction of their powers if the council is enlarged. The work of the new UN committee primarily concentrates on the question of how the 129 Third World countries can be represented if the council is enlarged. Their opinion is important because two-thirds of all UN members have to agree to an enlargement.
