FBIS4-18383 "drweu065cc_94002" FBIS-WEU-94-065 Daily Report 29 Mar 1994 INTER-EUROPEAN AFFAIRS Mexican Secretary Warns EU on Trade, Protectionism Mexican Secretary Warns EU on Trade, Protectionism PA0204001394 Mexico City UNOMASUNO in Spanish 29 Mar 94 p 3. PA0204001394 Mexico City UNOMASUNO Spanish BFN [Text] Foreign Secretary Manuel Tello said yesterday Latin America could face a trade deficit with Europe--the first time in 30 years--if Europe does not clear certain "confusions that could lead to a type of protectionism." During opening ceremonies of the 10th San Jose Mechanism Ministers Meeting in Athens, Greece, Tello demanded the European nations broaden their new preference system for Latin America in order to improve trade relations between the two regions. Tello told the foreign ministers of Europe and the Group of Three [G-3] (Mexico, Colombia, and Venezuela) that Latin America has become one of the most dynamic markets for European exports over the last three years. Latin America's entry into that process, he added, is based on an open regional strategy, and the economic reforms taking place on the continent have contributed significantly to the process of worldwide trade liberalization. Exports from Latin America to Europe have declined since 1989, and, if this trend continues, we will be faced with a rather high deficit for the first time in three decades. He believes the European Union [EU] should establish a new system of general preferences that are effective for longer periods. He added that the new system should eliminate any type of "confusion" regarding health matters that might suggest some form of protectionism. According to the official, exports coming from the EU into the region have increased by about 33 percent, totaling approximately $20 billion. He announced the G-3 will sign a free trade agreement in 1994, while integration efforts in Latin America could conclude by 1997. At the meeting, attended by representatives from Guatemala, Honduras, El Salvador, Costa Rica, Nicaragua, Panama, the EU, and the G-3, Mexico suggested action be taken to allow Central America greater access to the global scene.
