FBIS4-65631 "drweu098_j_94003" FBIS-WEU-94-098 Daily Report 19 May 1994 ITALY & VATICAN CITY New Telecommunications Company Formed New Telecommunications Company Formed LD1905202994 Rome RAI Due Television Network in Italian 1745 GMT 19 May 94 LD1905202994 Rome RAI Due Television Network Italian BFN [Report over video by correspondent Paolo Cantore] [Text] [Announcer Mimo Liguoro] Telecommunications will be the big money-maker of the year 2000. This sector is dominated by sophisticated and up-to-the minute technology that will generate thousands of billions of lire and that will change our lives. In Italy, up until now, the sector has been run by a number of state-controlled companies. These will now merge into a new company called Telecom Italia. Paolo Cantore reports: [Cantore] The Italian telecommunications colossus is about to be born. Telecom Italia--the new society created by the merger of five companies that were formerly part of the IRI-STET [Institute for Industrial Reconstruction-Telephone Finance Company] group into SIP [state-owned telephone company] --will be the sixth largest telecommunications operator in the world. The new company will have 100,000 employees, an income of 27 trillion lire, and technological assets worth 52 trillion lire. The merger was decided today by the boards of the five companies, but the merger will become effective on 18 August--the date on which Telecom Italia's stock market listing will replace that of SIP and Italcable. Over 55 percent of Telecom shares will be in the hands of STET, 25 percent of shares will be in the hands of foreign investors, a little under three percent will belong to IRI, and 17 percent to Italian investors. Telecom will be the challenge of Italian state-controlled industry to the major world players on the telecommunications stage --a sector that in the year 2000 will represent two-thirds of the jobs in the industrial sector and whose interests will range from the good old telephone to cellular networks, from interactive television to multimedia markets. [Liguoro] A short time ago, the Telecom Italia board was appointed. It is made up of nine people who previously worked for SIP, STET, IRI, and the Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications. In a surprise move, Ernesto Pascale will assume not only the role of company chairman, but also that of managing director. Filippo Galliano will be the deputy chairman, and the three general directors will be Vito Gamberale, Francesco Chirichigno, and (Tommaso Tommasi Di Vignano).
