FBIS4-17474 "drsov079_f_94004" FBIS-SOV-94-079 Daily Report 25 Apr 1994 National Affairs Kravchuk Warns Crimea's Decrees May Be Abrogated Kravchuk Warns Crimea's Decrees May Be Abrogated LD2504085994 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 0847 GMT 25 Apr 94 LD2504085994 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [Report by ITAR-TASS correspondent Galina Nekrasova] [Text] Lvov 25 April TASS -- "Statements by Yuriy Meshkov [president of the Crimean Republic] about the Crimea's secession from Ukraine are poorly thought-out," Ukrainian President Leonid Kravchuk said in an interview with the world service of Radio Ukraina this morning. "All the Crimean decrees contravening the Ukrainian Constitution and laws will be abrogated in future too. I do not speak about decrees on economic reform. In this case, there can be appropriate variations and additional possibilities for the economy's liberalisation," the president noted. "I see Ukraine as a unitarian country," Kravchuk stressed. "Meshkov's statements that Ukraine should leave the Crimea, are not serious. The Crimea is a Ukrainian territory recognised by all countries in the world. If Russia has now bases in the Crimea for its Black Sea Fleet, it is impossible to force it to leave the bases. "We should come to agreement with Russia, which signed appropriate documents providing for a lease of bases on the Crimean territory for a definite period of time till this issue is settled on a broader scale." Kravchuk underlined: "I'm against aggravating the problem of the Black Sea Fleet beforehand. On the basis of a preliminary understanding, a meeting of ministers or delegations, we shall abide by understandings which are incorporated in the four documents signed by the Ukrainian and Russian heads of state. But neither Russia nor Ukraine should dictate or demand a unilateral advantages. It is a complicated problem, and it should be settled reasonably and quietly in order not to quarrel and not to bring the situation to a conflict." Kravchuk said that he had a telephone conversation with Russian Premier Viktor Chernomyrdin who suggested that meetings should be held at the level of the cabinet heads or the presidents and that a decision should be taken on the Black Sea Fleet.
