FBIS3-11510 "drlat056_r_94002" FBIS-LAT-94-056 Document Type:Daily Report 17 Mar 1994 Peru General Criticizes Media `Campaign' To Discredit Military PY2203233494 Lima CARETAS in Spanish 17 Mar 94 p 21 PY2203233494 Lima CARETAS Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [From the "Undercurrent" section] [Text] Military Party Two weeks ago, Army Commander General [title as published] Nicolas de Bari Hermoza gathered a large number of Lima garrison officers at the Military School hall and made an aggressive speech against those who allegedly are conducting a campaign to discredit the Army. Beating on a table with his fists, Hermoza stressed that he would not allow the trial of his officers by courts of law. Afterward, he repeated the details of Army Press Office (OIE) Press Bulletin 02-94, dated 10 February. This bulletin states: "The political programs broadcast by the television channels and published by the magazines SI, OIGA, and CARETAS, and especially the newspaper LA REPUBLICA are disseminating biased reports with a clear intention of feigning (...) an Army relationship and complicity with drug trafficking." At first sight, the first misinterpretation is that the OIE and Hermoza claim that the reports on the links between some military officers and drug trafficking are aimed against the entire Army. Thus, the military leaders attempt to protect themselves behind the Army and resort to solidarity, instead of responding to the very solid charges actually raised by Army members. The threat to the independent press has been rejected by the media and the Journalists Association. In a strong communique signed by its dean, Miguel Calderon, the Journalists Association pointed out the press' supervisory role and asked President Alberto Fujimori to deny the report and punish those who are circulating it. As an odd feature, it is worth pointing out that the aforementioned nine-page communique -- of an entirely political content -- concludes with a warning remark: "The current BIE [Army Press Bulletin] will be read and discussed with all Army military personnel."
