FBIS3-21606 "jptdd009__l94004" JPRS-TDD-94-009-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Narcotics 28 February 1994 LATIN AMERICA REGIONAL AFFAIRS Endara, Gaviria Sign Joint Declaration, Discuss Antidrug Cooperation PA2502175994 Panama City LA PRENSA in Spanish 24 Feb 94 p 1A PA2502175994 Panama City LA PRENSA Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Report by Vilma E. Figueroa B.] [Text] President Guillermo Endara of Panama and President Cesar Gaviria of Colombia have signed a joint declaration at the fourth meeting of the Colombian-Panamanian neighbors' commission. The two presidents signed the Transfer of Convicted Individuals Treaty, the Illegal Immigrants Agreement, and the Complementary Protocol on the Legal Assistant and Mutual Cooperation Agreement in Medellin. They also created the Permanent Commission for the Demarcation of the Colombian-Panamanian Border at the meeting. This commission will hold its first technical meeting in Santa Fe de Bogota on 17 and 18 March. In one of the paragraphs of the joint declaration, President Gaviria reiterated his satisfaction with Panama's efforts for the orderly transfer of the Panama Canal, which will occur on 31 December 1999, and the canal's administration. According to a press note released by the Panamanian Presidency, the two presidents expressed their firm conviction that a full and participative democracy is the appropriate framework to meet the people's needs. They also agreed that social development programs strengthen democracy and that fighting poverty is a priority. An ANSA dispatch, datelined Medellin, reports that yesterday Gaviria stressed the need for Colombia and Panama to consolidate their integration and cooperation to fight drug trafficking jointly. He maintained that "the big effort" the two countries are making to confront drug trafficking would be greatly rewarded "if we were able to strengthen coordination and cooperation between our nations' authorities on a permanent basis. Colombia and Panama have a great opportunity to fight this scourge; we can do more to make this threat disappear forever," Gaviria said at the opening of the fourth meeting of the Colombian-Panamanian neighbors' commission.
