FBIS3-9074 "dreeu054aa_94005" FBIS-EEU-94-054 Document Type:Daily Report 18 Mar 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Croatian, Bosnian Officials Sign Agreements `Text' of Federation Agreement LD1803223094 Zagreb Radio Croatia Network in Serbo-Croatian 2100 GMT 18 Mar 94 LD1803223094 Zagreb Radio Croatia Network Language: Serbo-Croatian Article Type:BFN ["Text of the agreement on the federation of Croats and Bosniak-Muslims in Bosnia-Herzegovina" signed in Washington on 18 March -- read by announcer] [Text] Today we confirm the proposed constitution of the Federation of Bosnia-Herzegovina as well as a preliminary agreement concerning future economic and military cooperation between the Federation [of Bosnia-Herzegovina] and the Republic of Croatia. These agreements mark our common commitment to restoring peace in Bosnia-Herzegovina and throughout our region. We have agreed to step up our efforts in the search for an overall political settlement that ensures the protection of human rights and the preservation of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of all states in the region. The Bosniak and Croatian delegations affirm their commitment to propose this constitution to a Constitutional Assembly as the basis for a federation ensuring full national equality, democratic relations, and the highest standards of human rights and freedoms. All delegations lend their support to the principles of the confederation, which can lay the foundation for a more prosperous and secure future for the peoples of the region. To broaden our cooperation, we have decided that we will immediately do the following: 1. Form a joint group to be the sole representative of the Bosniaks and Croats in all negotiations with the Serbs concerning an overall settlement in Bosnia-Herzegovina. 2. Ask the CSCE to appoint an ombudsman to begin work in Bosnia-Herzegovina with the mandate described in the proposed constitution. 3. Invite the European Union to organize its administration of the district of Mostar as soon as possible. 4. Continue the full and immediate implementation of the measures agreed by the military transition team in Split on 12 March, and encourage steps for the further disengagement of forces.
