FBIS4-16776 "drsov076_b_94024" FBIS-SOV-94-076 Daily Report 19 Apr 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Economic Issues Yeltsin Sends Chernomyrdin Letter on Bankruptcies Yeltsin Sends Chernomyrdin Letter on Bankruptcies LD1904134994 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1313 GMT 19 Apr 94 LD1904134994 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Tamara Zamyatina] [Text] Moscow April 19 TASS -- Russian President Boris Yeltsin has addressed a letter to Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin stressing the need to resolve the problem of default payments and to enact bankruptcy procedures for loss-making enterprises, ITAR-TASS was told today by Aleksandr Livshits, head of a team of experts under the presidency. Speaking about the need for bankruptcy procedures, Livshits stressed that if this measure was not adopted "the inflation is apt to reach 40-50 per cent at the first stage, by May 1944, and the next spiral of default payments will lead to the Ukrainisation of the Russian economy". The expert believes that it is just as difficult to legalise bankruptcies as it was to liberalise prices in January 1992. But if that was the first step towards the Russian economy's switchover to market rails, today it is most necessary to make the second step. Explaining the bankruptcy mechanism, Livshits, who is doctor of economic sciences, noted that a loss-making enterprise should be immediately privatised, turned into an open-type joint-stock society, and temporarily managed by a commission, made up of creditors and representatives of the State Property Committee. The commission will check the accounts of the bankrupt enterprise, will analyse its system of management, and will decide on the commodities it is to manufacture. Only then the enterprise will get the money it needs to restore its efficiency. "Moreover," Livshits stressed, "it will not be necessary to lay off the workers of an enterprise which voluntarily declares itself bankrupt or to lock up its gates. The president's 4-page message to the prime minister envisages some long-term measures (circulation of bills and reform of banks), as well as some short-term steps. Thereby, Yeltsin assumes full responsibility for the second step of the reform, including the riddance of the Russian economy of inefficient enterprises.
