FBIS3-13457 "drnes050_j_94003" FBIS-NES-94-050 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Mar 1994 ARABIAN PENINSULA Kuwait Officials Deny `Abnormal Diseases' Surfaced After War JN1403172194 Kuwait AL-WATAN in Arabic 7 Mar 94 p 7 JN1403172194 Kuwait AL-WATAN Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Report by 'Adnan al-Lughani] [Text] The ministers of defense and health have stated that Kuwait, in the aftermath of the Kuwait liberation war, is free of any abnormal diseases. This came in remarks made after taking part in a meeting of the Environment Committee of the National Assembly. Minister of Defense Shaykh 'Ali Sabah al-Salim has dismissed as utterly groundless foreign press reports, as carried in local press, that chemical materials were used in the war for the liberation of Kuwait. He regretted that the press has carried such news reports, which only aim to shake the citizens' confidence and make them believe that the earth and climate in our country are polluted with bacteriological germs. This is untrue, he noted. In a related development, Minister of Health Dr. 'Abd-al-Wahhab al-Fawzan, who, along with several Health Ministry officials, took part in the meeting, has stated that official statistics and studies conducted in the country are reassuring. These statistics and studies showed that the figures for birth deformities, miscarriages, cancer, and dermatological diseases reported before the Iraqi invasion of the country remained unchanged in the aftermath of this invasion. The minister added that the amount of radiation in the atmosphere in the State of Kuwait is within normal ranges. He went on to say that the reported infection of some U.S. troops serving in the Gulf with a certain disease was caused by a skin rash precipitated by cutaneous leishmaniasis and the so-called oriental sore. This, in turn, was caused by sandflies, which are very common in the Arabian Peninsula and Iran. These infections are limited and natural, the health minister noted. Dr. al-Fawzan maintained that the ministry does not agree with the reports published in newspapers in this regard. The ministry regards such reports as unreliable. The ministry only trusts the WHO releases, which have dismissed as groundless reports that abnormal diseases surfaced in Kuwait in the aftermath of the liberation war. He added that the WHO had taken part in several of the studies the Health Ministry conducted in Kuwait. The minister noted that the local news media must play a great role in enlightening citizens and assuring them about the health situation in the country. These media must also contact Ministry of Health officials when they receive any pertinent reports from foreign sources, he added. For his part, Dr. Nasir Sirkhuh, rapporteur of the Environment Committee of the National Assembly, said that the committee raised this issue with the Ministry of Defense and the Ministry of Health after international news reports surfaced that some strange diseases spread in the region in the aftermath of the Kuwait liberation war, and that U.S. troops caught these diseases. He added that meetings with officials of the two ministries confirmed that these press reports are groundless, and that the health situation in the country is sound. Contrary to these reports, he noted, statistics have shown an improvement in many areas of the health situation in Kuwait, compared to the situation before the occupation. Dr. Sirkhuh concluded by saying that he is not aware of the motives behind these tendentious press reports.
