FBIS4-17092 "drsov077_a_94016" FBIS-SOV-94-077 Daily Report 21 Apr 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS No `Crack' in U.S.-Russian Relations Over Bosnia No `Crack' in U.S.-Russian Relations Over Bosnia LD2104135094 Moscow Russian Television Network in Russian 1200 GMT 21 Apr 94 LD2104135094 Moscow Russian Television Network Russian BFN [Report by A. Dubnov; from the "Vesti" newscast] [Text] At a briefing for journalists in the Kremlin Vyacheslav Kostikov, the Russian president's press secretary, disclosed that the treaty on civic accord would be signed at a ceremony in St. George's Hall on 28 April. The final drafting work was completed yesterday and it was forwarded to the president and State Duma deputies for their attention. Vyacheslav Kostikov said the criticisms and proposals of all factions, including the Communists and the LDPR [Liberal Democratic Party of Russia], had been heeded in the treaty. The press secretary said that although President Yeltsin believes that the treaty will succeed, he also realizes that not everybody will support the document. Vyacheslav Kostikov dwelled on the situation in the Black Sea Fleet. In his words, the Russian president is relying on Leonid Kravchuk's common sense. Relations with the United States were also touched on at the briefing. During his telephone conversation with Bill Clinton last night, Russian President Boris Yeltsin confirmed that Russia's policies towards the United States remained unchanged. President Yeltsin noted that our states were striving for democracy. In the process Russia was mindful of both sides' interests. Kostikov quoted Boris Nikolayevich as saying that nobody would succeed in driving a wedge between himself and Bill Clinton and rejected claims that a crack had appeared in the Russo-U.S. relationship because of the Bosnian crisis. Referring to Russia's attitude towards the Balkan situation, the press secretary said that the president regards our country's position as being unchanged. Russia has always objected to air strikes in Bosnia and we are continuing our attempts to persuade Serbia to cease fire and hold consultations with all interested parties.
