FBIS3-32898 "drlat032_m_94004" FBIS-LAT-94-032 Document Type:Daily Report 16 Feb 1994 Brazil Differences Between Lula, PT Programs Viewed PY1502202894 Rio de Janeiro O GLOBO in Portuguese 14 Feb 94 p 3 PY1502202894 Rio de Janeiro O GLOBO Language: Portuguese Article Type:BFN [Text] The Workers Party [PT] national board has postponed until 17 February the meeting to debate the 15 controversial points of the party's government program. Presidential candidate Luis Inacio Lula da Silva and the party's bloc of federal deputies will also participate in the meeting. Here is a list of the issues on which Lula particularly disagrees with the PT program: Privatization PT proposal: To end the National Privatization Program (PND) and review some sales already made. Lula's proposal: To view the privatization of nonstrategic state- owned companies. To preserve current monopolies but open them to participation by the private sector through risk contracts and sale of shares. Foreign Debt PT proposal: To adopt unilateral measures, such as suspending the foreign debt payment followed by an audit. In other words: Moratorium. Lula's proposal: To renegotiate the foreign debt. He believes a government that wants to negotiate cannot declare a moratorium. Trade debts will be honored. The foreign debt will be handled from the political viewpoint and not from the economic and financial one. Anti-Inflation Policy PT proposal: To postpone the choice of anti-inflation policy tools until the conjuncture of problems inherited from the previous administration is defined and identified. Lula's proposal: To socially control inflation through negotiations by sectorial groups. To gradually reduce inflation instead of implementing shocks, seeking to suddenly reduce monthly rates from 40 percent to 0.9 percent. Domestic Debt PT proposal: To convert the domestic debt into bonds, thus suspending the pact for automatic repurchase of public bonds. Lula's proposal: To negotiate a rescheduling of the domestic debt. Contracts will not be unilaterally broken. Foreign Trade PT proposal: To end the policy of mega-trade surpluses and to stimulate the domestic market growth by creating a market of the masses. Lula's proposal: To concurrently export and create a market of the masses are not opposing models. The goal is to strengthen the domestic market, but without hindering the level of exports. This would become possible through an overall increase in production. Foreign Investment PT proposal: To channel foreign capital into productive investments. Lula's proposal: Foreign investment will return to the country as a result of economic stability. The government must be credible if it is to attract foreign investment to the productive sector. Agrarian Reform PT proposal: To settle one million of families over the next five years. Sugar mill owners land will be negotiated in exchange for their debt to the government. Lula's proposal: To implement an agrarian reform and settle one million families over the next five years. The process, however, will have to be accompanied by an agricultural policy aimed at stimulating small farmers and cooperatives.
