FBIS4-41593 "drsov123_r_94014" FBIS-SOV-94-123 Daily Report 24 Jun 1994 Azerbaijan Reasons for Delay in Privatization Program Discussed Reasons for Delay in Privatization Program Discussed NC2406145894 Baku TURAN in English 0801 GMT 24 Jun 94 NC2406145894 Baku TURAN English BFN [Text] Baku (June 23) TURAN: The State Committee for property submitted to Milli Mejlis Commissions for Economic Policy and for Budget Supervision new draft of Privatization Program. Discussion of the program was to take place three days ago, but was postponed. TURAN was told by the source, close to government, that the main reason of that is due to three various approaches to privatization program. The most influential representative of the first trend is the parliament's speaker Rasul Guliyev. He stands for mass privatization, as in Russia. Such approach is motivated by economic efficiency of such privatization. But supporters of such approach are widely represented in economic structures, as well as in authority structures. In case of mass sale of state property they will become owners of great properties. Supporters of this approach oppose the monopoly of State Committee for Property concerning privatization questions. Representative of the second approach is Prime Minister Suret Guseynov. He opposes privatization, referring to continuous war. But such approach is also explained by the fact, that his supporters are weakly represented in industry, and for them privatization would mean loss of positions. The third approach is reflect in the privatization program and is protected by State Committee for Property. That approach provides gradual and stage by stage privatization -- in 1994-1995 privatization of minor enterprises, and beginning from 1996 -- privatization of average enterprises and large enterprises partially. In this case social justice is emphasised, and economic efficiency is on the second place. Such option of the Program of State Committee for Property was ready a year and a half ago, when Elchibey was in power.
