FBIS4-34833 "drlat122_f_94001" FBIS-LAT-94-122 Daily Report 22 Jun 1994 CENTRAL AMERICA President Announces Police Director, Security Plan President Announces Police Director, Security Plan PA2306154694 San Salvador Canal Doce Television in Spanish 0300 GMT 22 Jun 94 PA2306154694 San Salvador Canal Doce Television Spanish BFN [Report by Erwin Gongora from the "Up-to-Date" newscast] [Text] This evening, President Armando Calderon Sol announced that Rodrigo Avila, deputy operations commissioner of the National Civilian Police [PNC], has been designated the new PNC director. The president said Avila will be sworn into his position on 1 July. In addition, the president disclosed a national security plan to effectively fight organized crime. [Begin Calderon Sol recording] The decision regarding the appointment of the PNC director has already been made. Rodrigo Avila will be the new PNC director, and he works at the PNC and will assume his position on 1 July. [end recording] Regarding the security plan, Calderon Sol explained it will be jointly implemented by members of the National Police, the PNC, and the Armed Forces, which will provide logistical cooperation. The president said the deputy security minister will be tasked with organizing the security plan. [Begin Calderon Sol recording] The two police corps that exist during this transition period will be placed under the deputy public security minister. These police corps will have a single leader. We believe this reorganization will enable us to face crime more effectively. [end recording] Calderon Sol said, however, the security plan will not be a success without the people's support; in this regard, he added, certain mechanisms have been established. [Begin Calderon Sol recording] We are going to implement people's security committees in neighborhoods, cantons, and villages; we are also going to organize people at the municipal level to permit the participation of organized people. [end recording] The president made these statements at a ceremony held on 21 June commemorating the 60th anniversary of the Central Reserve Bank.
