FBIS4-8570 "dreeu073__a94018" FBIS-EEU-94-073-A Daily Report 12 Apr 1994 ANNEX Hungary Foreign Ministry Responds to Romanian Complaints Foreign Ministry Responds to Romanian Complaints AU1304074694 Budapest MTI in English 1523 GMT 12 Apr 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY AU1304074694 Budapest MTI English BFN [Text] Budapest, 12 April 12 (MTI) -- After Romanian Government complaints about Hungarian politician Geza Entz's visit to Romania, a Hungarian Government spokesman said today that Romania had made no objections beforehand to the visit's itinery, and that requiring a visa for a diplomatic passport-holder went against both international practice and the Hungarian-Romanian no visa agreement. Both President of the Romanian Assembly of Deputies Adrian Nastase, and the Romanian Foreign Ministry spokesman, have raised objections since a visit by Hungarian State Secretary Geza Entz to Romania. The Hungarian spokesman, Janos Herman, said the visit had been coordinated in advance with the Romanian Foreign Ministry, and Hungary had also announced that, for the Hungarian President, Entz would decorate church dignitaries living in Romania who were persecuted for their sympathy with the 1956 Hungarian revolution. The Romanian Foreign Ministry was also informed that the State Secretary would meet leaders of the Hungarian Democratic Union of Romania, on the basis of their invitation. With this, the Hungarian Embassy in Bucharest met the prescriptions of the 1961 Vienna agreement on diplomatic relations. No objections came from the Romanian side. In the light of the circumspect proceedings, the Hungarian foreign affairs spokesman found incomprehensible the remarks made by the spokesman of the Romanian Foreign Ministry at his press briefing on March 30. Regarding semi-official remarks made about compulsory visas for Hungarian diplomatic passports, Herman said it is a well known fact that the bilateral visa agreement does not make it possible to unilaterally suspend it. And Hungary is not aware of any Romanian proposal to amend this. Even so, introducing compulsory visas for diplomatic passports, while upholding the no visa obligation for private passports, would be unparalleled in international practice, he continued. The spokesman also added that the Hungarian Foreign Ministry would not, for its part, see it as desirable to introduce compulsory visas for Romanian citizens entering Hungary with diplomatic passports. Romanian citizens with valid and regular travel documents will be able to enter Hungary without central controls, and then meet anyone in Hungary. The Hungarian Foreign Ministry hopes no statements of similarly unusual tone and content will burden Hungarian-Romanian relations in the future, and that an atmosphere can be created in which talks begun on the bilateral basic treaty can continue. Herman declined to speculate on a date for signing the basic treaty. He said his aim was to settle genuine problems. In answer to another question, Herman confirmed that a possible visit of Palestinian leader Yasir 'Arafat to Budapest was raised, but no agreement has been reached as to its date.
