FBIS4-55964 "dreeu101_i_94007" FBIS-EEU-94-101 Daily Report 25 May 1994 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA Serbs Target Kalesija, Kladanj, Bihac, Brcko Serbs Target Kalesija, Kladanj, Bihac, Brcko AU2505085394 AU2505085394 BFN [Editorial Report] Sarajevo Radio Bosnia-Herzegovina Network in Serbo-Croatian at 0800 GMT on 25 May carries in its regular 8-minute newscast several reports on the military situation in the republic over the last 24 hours. Reception is fair. Reporting from Kalesija, Abdulah Ridjanovic says that "yesterday evening the entire commune came under attack, particularly from the direction of (Borogovo), from where (?Cetkovice), Gornji Rajinci, and Lazarevici were shelled with large-caliber howitzers. From the direction of (Dolina) and Djukanovic Brdo the enemy fired 82-mm mortars at Kalesija and the district of (Brdo). A fierce artillery attack was also launched from the infamous Mt. Majevica on (?Vozuca) and Gornja Hrasnica." Muriz Kreho reports from Kladanj that "during the last 24 hours the southern and southeastern parts on this front came under Chetnik artillery fire. From their strongholds in the temporarily occupied areas of Olovo, Han Pijesak, and Vlasenica, the Chetniks pounded our defense positions east of Karaula with howitzers, tanks, and mortars. Their long-range artillery also targeted the center of Kladanj. Dozens of large-caliber shells were fired between 1620 and 2000, but fortunately there were no casualties." Describing the situation in Bihac, Mirza Sadikovic says that "during the night the united [Serbian and Fikret Abdic's paramilitaries] aggressor kept firing with small arms and antiaircraft weapons in the entire theater of operations of the 5th Corps and the HVO [Croatian Defense Council]. On several occasions they shelled the defensive positions on the Grmusko-Srbljanski plateau. During the night several artillery shells were fired at Cazin and the outskirts of Bihac, while members of Abdic's traitor paramilitaries attempted an infantry breakthrough at Pecigrad." Hamiz Deronjic reports from Brcko that "over the last 24 hours the Serbian aggressor fired with small arms, trying to provoke the defenders' response. Yesterday evening the aggressor fired a dozen 82-mm mortars from (Rogozar) at (Jagodnjak). Our fighters, who have suffered no losses during the last 24 hours, did not respond to the enemy fire."
