FBIS4-66083 "drweu103__a94001" FBIS-WEU-94-103-A Daily Report 27 May 1994 ANNEX International Affairs NATO Deputy Secretary Rejects Moscow Consultations NATO Deputy Secretary Rejects Moscow Consultations BR2605150094 Brussels BELGA Database in French 1555 GMT 25 May 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY BR2605150094 Brussels BELGA Database French BFN [Article signed GGD/RHR: "No Formal Agreement With Moscow on Relations With NATO"] [Text] Brussels, 25 May (BELGA) -- NATO Deputy Secretary General Sergio Balanzino on Wednesday [25 May] ruled out the signing of a formal agreement with Russia on starting consultations between Moscow and the Atlantic alliance. Sergio Balanzino said: "A formal protocol has been ruled out by the Council (the North Atlantic Council, comprising the 16 NATO countries)." He was speaking in Brussels at a news conference at the end of a meeting of NATO and East European defense ministers. General Pavel Grachev, Russian defense minister, for his part stated outside the meeting that Russia would unconditionally join the Partnership for Peace (PFP) proposed by NATO to the other European countries, and essentially to its former adversaries of the Warsaw Pact. On Wednesday morning, however, he requested that a permanent mechanism be set up for consultation with the alliance. However, Mr. Balanzino, replacing NATO Secretary General Woerner, who was officially absent so as not to interrupt his period of convalescence, said that if Russia were to join the PFP it would have no access or veto rights on decisions made by the Atlantic alliance. Mr. Balanzino repeated that Moscow will also have to sign the same document as the other Partnership countries. He continued: "We trust there will be no changes to the PFP framework document that Russia will sign. This document is exactly the same for everyone." He did, however, accept that the great sway held by Russia as the second great power and a permanent member of the UN Security Council will be "taken into consideration" in the dialogue to be established on a "step by step" basis between the alliance and Moscow.
