FBIS3-37679 "drsov035_a_94031" FBIS-SOV-94-035 Document Type:Daily Report 22 Feb 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Kozyrev in Athens, Talks With Germany's Kinkel LD1802122594 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service in Russian 1012 GMT 18 Feb 94 LD1802122594 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [By ITAR-TASS special correspondent] [Text] Athens, 18 Feb -- Talks between Russian Foreign Minister Andrey Kozyrev, who arrived here yesterday, and Klaus Kinkel, head of the German foreign policy department, ended in the early hours. The parties discussed the development of the situation around the Bosnian conflict in connection with the positive response to a personal letter from Russian President Boris Yeltsin from Serbian President Slobodan Milosevic and Radovan Karadjic, leader of the Bosnian Serbs, and also from the Bosnian Serb parliament. The point is that the sides agreed to withdraw their heavy guns from a 20-km zone after receiving a promise that Russian forces would take part in the peace-keeping operations in the Sarajevo vicinity. During an intensive dialogue lasting nearly three hours, the ministers got in touch by telephone from the residence of the German ambassador in Athens, where the talks took place, with French Foreign Minister Alain Juppe and U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher. The parties are aware of the need to undertake a joint initiative shortly to advance the process of a settlement around Sarajevo and of the Bosnian conflict as a whole. In addition to this, the ministers had an in-depth discussion of the state of Russian-German relations in connection with President Boris Yeltsin's forthcoming visit to Germany, scheduled for late spring. K. Kinkel invited A. Kozyrev to visit Germany in order to prepare for the visit, and the Russian foreign minister will go there at the beginning of May. Today sees the start of A. Kozyrev's consultations with the European "troika" -- the former, present, and future presidents of the Council of the European Union; that is, the foreign ministers of Belgium, Greece, and Germany -- and also, in all probability, telephone consultations with British Foreign Secretary Douglas Hurd and Warren Christopher.
