FBIS4-13911 "drnes079yy_94011" FBIS-NES-94-079 Daily Report 22 Apr 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Arab-Israeli Talks Various Dialogue Tracks Detailed Various Dialogue Tracks Detailed TA2204111994 Tel Aviv HA'ARETZ in Hebrew 22 Apr 94 p A4 TA2204111994 Tel Aviv HA'ARETZ Hebrew BFN [Report by political correspondent Aluf Ben] [Excerpts] Senior political elements in Jerusalem anticipated yesterday that the meeting between U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher and Jordan's King Husayn in London next week will result in a formula that will resolve the Jordanian-U.S. crisis created by the naval blockade on the port of al-'Aqabah. The elements believe that Jordan will attend the Washington peace talks, which are due to resume in the coming weeks. This week, Israel and Jordan held daily contacts on various tracks. Elyaqim Rubinstein, head of the Israeli delegation to the talks with Jordan, had several telephone conversations with his counterpart Fayiz al-Tarawinah, the chief Jordanian delegate. In these meetings, Israel sought to learn about the Jordanian stand on the naval blockade issue and to gauge the seriousness of Jordan's threat to suspend the peace talks if its disagreement with the United States is not resolved. For their part, the Jordanians evinced great interest in the progress of the Israeli-PLO economic talks in Paris. They asked Israel to consider Jordan's positions in various spheres pertaining to the future economic ties between the Palestinian autonomy and Jordan. [passage omitted] On another track, a periodic meeting on current problems was held at the beginning of this week between Israeli and Jordanian elements. One of the issues on the agenda was the infiltration of opponents of the Iraqi regime into Israel through Jordanian territory. The track of direct, working-level encounters, which was established many years ago, gathered substantial momentum after the Israel-Jordan peace talks were launched. At present, they are incorporated in the political talks. Within this framework, a senior Israeli element met with his Jordanian counterpart in Washington several weeks ago. The two exchanged views and assessments on the Middle East situation. Jordan is more prepared than the other peace process participants to introduce confidence-building measures vis-a-vis Israel and to maintain ties with it on several tracks.
