FBIS3-41073 "jptdd005__l94010" JPRS-TDD-94-005-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Narcotics 1 February 1994 LATIN AMERICA BRAZIL 51 Kg of Cocaine Base Seized in Goias 94WD0162B Brasilia CORREIO BRAZILIENSE in Portuguese 14 Dec 93 p 6 94WD0162B Brasilia CORREIO BRAZILIENSE Language: Portuguese Article Type:CSO [Article: "PF Seizes 51 Kilos of Cocaine Paste"] [Text] The Federal District Regional Superintendency of the Federal Police Department [DPF] yesterday reported the results of the work done by the Drug Enforcement Headquarters to seize 51 kg of coca base and a number of packages of the starch that is used to adulterate--"step on"--the drug. Adulteration increases the weight of the drug and, consequently, its value. The seizure took place on the ranch owned by trafficker Antonio Alde Paiva ("Chimarrao"), who got away. The ranch is located near the municipality of Santo Antonio do Descoberto in Goias. Three traffickers were arrested. Investigation of the trafficker intensified when Federal Police agents obtained information that Antonio Alves--a trafficker well known to the DPF--would be receiving a large shipment of cocaine from Bolivia. The Federal Police discovered that "Chimarrao" owned some rural property in the municipality of Santo Antonio do Descoberto on the banks of the Areias River and that the drugs would probably be hidden there. By maintaining surveillance on the trafficker, police were able to dismantle part of that drug connection by arresting three members of the gang. During their investigation, the Federal Police learned that "Chimarrao" had frequent contacts in Goiania, Cuiaba, and Abadiania in Goias. It was discovered that Edison de Abreu Gama, Agenor Jose Alves, and Jose Lima Rodrigues had arrived in Abadiania with some large casks, and that was when the Federal Police Superintendency in the Federal District decided to start its operation. Arrest--The DPF agents arrested Edison de Abreu Gama, Agenor Jose Alves, and Jose Lima Rodrigues at Kilometer 13 on Highway BR-060. They were in a white Niva automobile with Sao Paulo license number SZ-4772. Found in the vehicle were a radio communications set and a .38 caliber revolver. The three men confessed that they had left the drugs on the side of Highway BR-060 near Abadiania, the place where they had been the night before. Carrying a search and arrest warrant and aided by drug-sniffing dogs, the federal agents were able to seize not only the drugs but also three shotguns, eight cartridges, and a number of blank documents--dummies for printing--belonging to the Federal District Traffic Department. The seizure occurred at the home of "Chimarrao," who owns the ranch alongside Highway BR-060. After the drugs were seized, Agenor confessed that his job in the gang was to accompany a truck driver named Mauro to the town of Abadiania and that the drugs were taken from a false bottom in the fuel tank of a truck--the license number of which is being kept secret by the Federal Police so as not to jeopardize the rest of the investigation that is now under way. Agenor also said that seven days earlier, he had brought 35 kg of coca base to "Chimarrao," who is a now a fugitive. Edison de Abreu Gama was the escort while the drug was being transported--that is, he drove ahead of the truck in the car with the radio set so as to warn truck driver Mauro of possible problems. The gang members were arrested and are being held at the DPF jail in the Federal District, where they have been charged with the commission of a crime under Article 12 of Law No. 6368.
