FBIS4-26348 "drchi119_v_94001" FBIS-CHI-94-119 Daily Report 20 Jun 1994 TAIWAN Official `Not Optimistic' on President's U.S. Tour Official `Not Optimistic' on President's U.S. Tour OW2006142394 Taipei CNA in English 1326 GMT 20 Jun 94 OW2006142394 Taipei CNA English BFN [By Sofia Wu] [Text] Taipei, June 20 (CNA) -- Vice Foreign Affairs Minister Chen Hsi-fan said Monday [20 June] he is not optimistic about the possibility of President Li Teng-hui's desired visit to the United States. Fielding questions at a Legislative Yuan committee meeting, Chen said that although several American congressmen have invited Li to visit the United States, the invitation does not represent the American Government's stance. "Without the US Government's approval, President Li still cannot visit America," Chen noted. As the US administration still insists on its so-called "one China" policy, he said the chances for Li to visit the United States remain slim. Chen said the US is expected to finalize a comprehensive review of its policy toward the Republic of China [ROC] at the end of this month, and may allow the ROC to rename its representative office in America to make its presence more conspicuous. Taiwan's representative office in the US is currently called the Coordination Council for North American Affairs. The ROC has long hoped to change the title to the "Taipei Representative Office." Barring unexpected developments, Chen said, the US will approve the renaming proposal when it makes public the results of its Taiwan policy review. Reports from Washington said the Clinton administration may also ease restrictions on high-level contacts with Taiwan in response to mounting congressional calls for upgrading ties with Taipei. The reports said the United States may not formally announce the lifting of its ban on high-level contacts with Taiwan, but it will instead send suitable ministerial-level officials to visit Taiwan at appropriate times in the future. In late 1992, then US Trade Representative Carla A. Hills became the highest-level incumbent American official to visit Taiwan since the two countries severed diplomatic ties in 1979. The reports said the US State Department completed a 60-page review of the country's policy toward Taiwan late last year. The document was, however, then shelved because of escalating tensions between Washington and Beijing over the renewal of the mainland's most-favored-nation trade status. Because the issue has been resolved, the reports said, the Clinton administration is scheduled to publish the review in late June.
