FBIS4-25745 "drchi114_w_94010" FBIS-CHI-94-114 Daily Report 11 Jun 1994 HONG KONG & MACAO Hong Kong PWC Co-Convener Dubs Attempts To Amend Reforms Pointless PWC Co-Convener Dubs Attempts To Amend Reforms Pointless HK1106073194 Hong Kong SOUTH CHINA MORNING POST in English 11 Jun 94 p 2 HK1106073194 Hong Kong SOUTH CHINA MORNING POST English BFN [Report by Linda Choy in Beijing] [Text] The Liberal Party was told its attempt to bring the electoral bill closer to the Basic Law would not prevent China disbanding the three tiers of government in 1997. The message was delivered by Hong Kong co-convener of the Preliminary Working Committee (PWC) political subgroup, Leung Chun-ying, who is in Beijing to discuss an initial report on the formation of the first post-1997 legislature and district organisations. Political parties' attempts to amend Governor Chris Patten's reform proposals had nothing to do with the PWC's work, Mr Leung said. The Liberal Party's proposal, to be discussed by the Legislative Council on June 29, would retain the original system of functional constituencies under which votes are cast by corporate members of business organisations. The party also seeks to bring the four-sector composition of the election committee in line with the Basic Law requirements. The PWC would come up with a proposal which followed the Basic Law. In its report, the subgroup will list possible solutions and recommendations for the formation of the first legislature and district organisations. One of the key features is related to the voting method, including the multi-seat single-vote system that has been voted down by Legco. Another proposal is for proportional representation, which most subgroup members preferred. The report will also touch on the smooth transition of the civil service, the formation of the first Special Administrative Region government, the relationship between the executive and legislature, and the setting up of offices in the SAR by different levels of the Chinese Government.
