FBIS3-11434 "drlat055_b_94001" FBIS-LAT-94-055 Document Type:Daily Report 21 Mar 1994 Caribbean Affairs Pourier To Present New Antillean Government 22 Mar BR2103154794 Amsterdam DE VOLKSKRANT in Dutch 21 Mar 94 p 4 BR2103154794 Amsterdam DE VOLKSKRANT Language: Dutch Article Type:BFN [Article by Stella van Rijn: "Parties Agree on Antillean Cabinet; Coalition Holds 16 Out of 22 Seats"] [Text] WILLEMSTAD -- The new Antillean cabinet is virtually ready. The political agreement between the parties which will form the new government in the Netherlands Antilles, will be signed in Willemstad next Tuesday. Negotiator Pourier is conducting the final discussions about the division of powers and about the candidates for the cabinet positions, but he does not expect any problems which might jeopardize the political agreement. The new government will be made up of the Antillean Restructuring Party (PAR) [Partido Antia Restruktura] and the New Antilles Movement (MAN) from Curacao, the Democratic Party (DP-B) from Bonaire, the Sint Maarten Patriotic Alliance (SPA), the Democratic Party (DP-StE) from Saint Eustatius, and the Windward Islands People's Movement (WIPM) from Saba. The coalition relies on a comfortable majority of 16 out of the 22 seats in Parliament, called the "States." Former Prime Minister Maria Liberia-Peters' National People's Party (PNP) is going into opposition in Parliament. The government program deals with the reorganization and its consequences for the central administration's restructuring. Pourier aims at organizing a referendum on the islands' political future next September on all islands at the same time, as was already the case on Curacao last November. In addition, the Pourier cabinet will also pay much attention to improving education, reducing public health expenditure, reorganizing the civil service, as well as drug and crime prevention. Relations with the Netherlands will also be reviewed by the new cabinet. The Netherlands' involvement will have to change, Pourier says. The Netherlands will have to play a more complementary role. The Antillean Government has a responsibility of its own. Only in fields where it cannot assume this responsibility on its own authority, will Pourier call upon the Netherlands for assistance. He wants, for instance, that Sint Maarten be placed under the high supervision of the Antillean Government, rather than of the Netherlands Government in the Hague. As soon as possible after the cabinet's inauguration, presumably on 31 March, the new prime minister wants to consult with the Netherlands in order to reach an agreement on the financial relationship, on relations between both governments and between the various islands and the Netherlands, on youth problems and on development aid.
