FBIS4-51280 "drchi103_a_94011" FBIS-CHI-94-103 Daily Report 25 May 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS General Greece Expresses Displeasure Over U.S. Statement on Albania Greece Expresses Displeasure Over U.S. Statement on Albania OW2505204594 Beijing XINHUA in English 1746 GMT 25 May 94 OW2505204594 Beijing XINHUA English BFN [Text] Athens, May 25 (XINHUA) -- Greece today expressed its displeasure over statements made by U.S. State Department Spokesman Mike McCurry who said he had "no reliable evidence to indicate that the Albanian Government is oppressing the Greek minority." Government Spokesman Evangelos Venizelos said that the statements by McCurry did not satisfy the Greek Government and were "inadequate". Greece's ambassador in Washington, Luukas Tsilas, made repeated representations to the State Department reiterating that the Greek positions and explanations were provided, Venizelos said. "The State Department," Venizelos continued, "said that the explanations given were detailed but that they had not been accurately translated in the statement made by Mr. McCurry when he briefed reporters in Washington." Meanwhile, the spokesman rejected claims contained in an Albanian Foreign Ministry announcement that it had evidence "proving that six ethnic Greeks were in illegal possession of arms, had connections with a Greek secret service and were engaged in secessionist activities." "No complete and substantiated arguments were ever presented during the meetings between the Greek and Albanian foreign ministers in Zurich or between the delegations of the two countries in Ioannina, northern Greece," Venizelos said. Venizelos reiterated that Greece was not prepared to be the target of slanderous, unfounded accusations and had displayed its good intentions for an improvement in relations with Tirana. "But the Albanian Government must realize that any improvement depends on its respect for the human rights of the Greek minority," Venizelos stressed. "If there is any evidence," he continued, "it should have been presented during the diplomatic contacts between Athens and Tirana. From there on, Albania bears the burden of proving that it is a state ruled by law."
