FBIS3-40017 "drweu038_h_94006" FBIS-WEU-94-038 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Feb 1994 GERMANY Bonn, Iran Plan To Intensify Cultural Relations AU2502140894 Frankfurt/Main FRANKFURTER RUNDSCHAU in German 25 Feb 94 p 1 AU2502140894 Frankfurt/Main FRANKFURTER RUNDSCHAU Language: German Article Type:BFN [Martin Winter report: "Iran and Bonn Plan To Revive Cultural Relations"] [Text] Bonn, 24 February -- Germany and Iran want to approach each other cautiously again in cultural policy. During a meeting between Iranian Deputy Foreign Minister Mahmud Va'ezi and Foreign Ministry State Secretary Dieter Kastrup, the discussion focused on the establishment of an institute to promote the German language in Tehran, the reestablishment of a German archaeological institute, and the opening of a German school in the Iranian capital for children from German-Iranian families. According to the Iranian minister, the language institute could perhaps be considered as a first step toward the reopening of the Goethe-Institute. Today, Friday, Va'ezi will also be received by Chancellor Helmut Kohl. Agreement was reached on having the German-Iranian Cultural Commission, which met in December 1991 for the last time, convene again. According to the Foreign Ministry, this was primarily the wish of the Iranians. Va'ezi's statement that the commission members are to meet this year have not been confirmed in Bonn. The Foreign Ministry wants to think about a date only if there is "movement" in Tehran, which means, for instance, that children from mixed marriages get access to the German school. Va'ezi said after the talks that his government is willing to make this concession. Agreement was reached on holding a joint seminar on human rights issues in Tehran in April. In particular lawyers, judges, and "practical workers" are to participate in it. Over the next few weeks experts are to negotiate on the German language institute and the archaeological institute. According to the Foreign Ministry, State Secretary Kastrup broached the persecution of British writer Salman Rushdie by a death sentence in connection with Tehran's desire for closer ties with the European Union. As long as this sentence is upheld, there cannot be any normal relations. According to the Foreign Ministry, Kastrup rejected Va'ezi's claim that the matter is exclusively the business of Iran and Great Britain by pointing out that this is something that concerns the entire European Union.
