FBIS4-33626 "drlat111_b_94004" FBIS-LAT-94-111 Daily Report 7 Jun 1994 Dominican Republic Haiti Aristide's 6 Jun Address to OAS Assembly Cited Aristide's 6 Jun Address to OAS Assembly Cited FL0806154194 Port-au-Prince Radio Metropole in French 1600 GMT 7 Jun 94 FL0806154194 Port-au-Prince Radio Metropole French BFN [Text] President-in-exile Jean-Bertrand Aristide issued a call at the OAS General Assembly for the international community to take quick and decisive action to oust the military that overthrew him in September 1991. Quick and decisive action is needed to dislodge those responsible for the coup d'etat in the framework of the Governors Island Agreement, Jean-Bertrand Aristide told the OAS General Assembly in Brazil. I will not waste time describing this action since the international community knows what it is, the president-in-exile said without explicitly mentioning military intervention. OAS international mediator Dante Caputo believes this crisis can be solved peacefully and in a few weeks. He thinks we do not face a whole year, stating that it would be necessary to issue a diplomatic ultimatum to the military in Haiti. He concluded, quote, we cannot condemn an armed intervention and not do anything to avoid it, unquote. Jean-Bertrand Aristide presented a government action program to be executed on his return. First, the president-in-exile asked for the immediate return of the UN mission in Haiti, the UN mission provided for in the Governors Island Agreement. I will return after the mission is sent and after an army and police reform program is introduced, he said. Once the government is restored, Jean-Bertrand Aristide also promises to collaborate with the UN mission for six months, as indicated in the Governors Island Agreement. At the same time, he expressed his willingness to reconcile Haitians with themselves, including the military. There will be reconciliation after democracy is restored in Haiti, which means peace for all, respect for each citizen, unity, and justice for all, he stated. The president-in-exile also presented a development program involving international aid. A country at work is a country at peace, assured the president-in-exile, who invited the OAS chancellors to meet in Haiti for the next OAS General Assembly. Those were statements made by President-in-exile Jean-Bertrand Aristide during the the 24th OAS General Assembly on 6 June.
