FBIS3-2933 "drchi050_k_94030" FBIS-CHI-94-050 Document Type:Daily Report 15 Mar 1994 NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political & Social Xiamen Special Economic Zone To Be Given Legislative Power OW1503091294 Beijing XINHUA in English 0857 GMT 15 Mar 94 OW1503091294 Beijing XINHUA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Beijing, March 15 (XINHUA) -- Xiamen city, one of China's five special economic zones, will be given legislative power at the ongoing session of the Eighth National People's Congress (NPC). A draft bill for that purpose is being deliberated by the congress. When it becomes law, it will empower the Xiamen municipal people's congress and its Standing Committee and the Xiamen municipal government to enact laws and regulations for implementation in the Xiamen Special Economic Zone. That means Xiamen will have the same legislative power as a provincial legislature. Xue Ju, chairman of the NPC Law Committee, made an explanation on an NPC draft decision on the question to the current NPC session. In recent years, the Xiamen Special Economic Zone has become an important window for developing economic relations with Taiwan and the rest of the world. Development of Xiamen requires that the special economic zone have the power to enact local laws and regulations, Xue Ju said. Xue said local laws and regulations to be enacted by the Xiamen People's Congress and its Standing Committee shall follow the country's constitution and the basic principles of national laws and administrative regulations. They shall be submitted for the record to the NPC Standing Committee, the State Council and the Standing Committee of the Fujian provincial people's congress. The Xiamen municipal government will be empowered to formulate regulations and decrees for implementation in the Xiamen Special Economic Zone. A motion calling for giving Xiamen legislative power was raised by NPC deputies in 1989 and 1993, Xue said. Zhang Binsheng, vice chairman of the Standing Committee of the Xiamen municipal people's congress, said the people of Xiamen will treasure and use the power judiciously.
