FBIS3-15711 "drsov046_b_94014" FBIS-SOV-94-046 Document Type:Daily Report 9 Mar 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Military Issues Six Soldiers Killed in Kuril Islands Shootout LD0903114994 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1118 GMT 9 Mar 94 LD0903114994 Moscow ITAR-TASS Language: English Article Type:BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Roman Zadunaysky] [Text] Moscow March 9 TASS -- Brutal bullying or "conscript-baiting" became the cause of the South Kuril islands as a result of which six servicemen were killed and several wounded, a source in Russia's law enforcement agencies told ITAR-TASS referring to the data of a preliminary questioning of the attackers. The same source gave details of the March 8 tragedy when Beltsov and Agdashev, young servicemen, entered the dormitory of the first border picket of the Pacific Border District (Tanfilyev island, South Kurils) at seven in the morning on Tuesday and opened fire with automatic weapons on fellow-servicemen -- the old rankers. According to a preliminary lead during the investigation, they wanted to avenge an earlier insult resultant of brutal bullying. The border picket personnel for several hours had been unable to pacify "mutinous" soldiers who, upon taking an advantageous position, beat off by automatic fire all attempts to seize them. Then the border picket commander called in a Mi-8 helicopter from Kunashir island for help but Beltsov and Agdashev managed to shoot down the helicopter which caught fire in midair and fell onto the island. According to preliminary data, the crew were not hurt while the helicopter burned up. Only at 16.00 on Tuesday, a seizure group managed to neutralise and apprehend the culprits of the tragedy. Six servicemen were killed and several wounded in the fierce daylong gunbattle on Tanfilyev island. Beltsov and Agdashev were seized alive. The same source dismissed rumours that Beltsov and Agdashev intended to flee to Japan. He said Colonel-General Andrey Nikolayev, commander of the Russian Federation border forces, the commander of the Pacific Border District and the military prosecutor of the district had been unable to get to the Tanfilyev island for the second day due to the typhoon-caused heavy storm. Criminal proceedings have been instituted on the strength of the incident facts, and an investigation is under way.
