FBIS3-18279 "drweu040_n_94003" FBIS-WEU-94-040 Document Type:Daily Report 1 Mar 1994 NORDIC COUNTRIES Denmark Rasmussen `Sharply Critical' of Spanish EU Demands PM2802164094 Copenhagen BERLINGSKE TIDENDE in Danish 26 Feb 94 p 12 PM2802164094 Copenhagen BERLINGSKE TIDENDE Language: Danish Article Type:BFN [Christian Brondum report: "Criticism of Spain's EU Demands"] [Text] Denmark is exerting maximum pressure to make it possible to reach agreement with Sweden, Norway, Finland, and Austria on the terms for accession to the EU [European Union]. This happened at the EU Commission's annual EU conference at Vilvorde Course Center near Copenhagen. Prime Minister Poul Nyrup Rasmussen (Social Democratic Party) and EU Commissioner Henning Christophersen both stressed Spain's demand for fishing rights off Norway as one of the biggest problems that must be solved in the current round of marathon negotiations before the EU's deadline for the negotiations runs out on Tuesday [1 March]. Henning Christophersen warned that if the EU does not succeed in reaching agreement with the four applicants countries, this will have "far-reaching consequences" for the future of Europe and for the chances of bringing in Europe's closest neighbors to the east. And the prime minister was sharply critical of Spain's demand for Norwegian fish: "I believe that Spanish interests will not in the final analysis block a solution. I quite simply consider Spain's demand for fishing rights up there in the north to be impossible to achieve. It is possible that Spain itself knows this. I believe that they will realize this at a certain point," Nyrup Rasmussen said. Nyrup Rasmussen thinks that the problems surrounding support for the three Nordic countries' agricultural production are minor problems. Their agricultural production amounts to only 1 to 2 percent of the EU's total agricultural production. And with a little imagination and dynamism there could also be a solution to the Nordic countries' regional problems in the northern regions. "There will be a great deal of drama in the final straight. But I do not think that this drama will be the final word. "The Danish Government will put all its efforts into achieving a reasonable result. "If things go as I hope, not long after the end of the century the EU will embrace 20 or more states," Nyrup Rasmussen added.
