FBIS3-646 "drafr048_c_94008" FBIS-AFR-94-048 Document Type:Daily Report 11 Mar 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA Violence Descends on Bophuthatswana as Government Flees AWB Members Gather in Mmbatho MB1003212994 Johannesburg SAPA in English 2104 GMT 10 Mar 94 MB1003212994 Johannesburg SAPA Language: English Article Type:BFN [By Lew Elias] [Text] Mmabatho March 10 SAPA -- White people in army camouflage uniform have entered the fray in riotous Bophuthatswana. The white men kept protesters away from the looted Megacity shopping complex and the University of Bophuthatswana in Mmabatho on Thursday [10 March] night. It was not known who the white men were. The South African Defence Force earlier on Thursday night denied that its had sent soldiers to the homeland. Gunshots were heard in the vicinity of the university, where there was a group of about 100 white men in camouflage. Meanwhile, members of the rightwing Afrikaner Weerstandsbeweging [AWB, Afrikaner Resistance Movement] have arrived in Mmabatho and are believed to be converging at the city's prison. An SABC [South African Broadcasting Corporation] television crew was stopped by a large group of AWB members. The keys for their vehicle were taken and thrown away, their film confiscated and destroyed and the crew left stranded on the road between Mmabatho and Zeerust. Acccording to SABC-TV producer Nan Roux the team had been harassed and she was mobilising people from the Mmbatho Sun Hotel to rescue the stranded crew. ITN [Independent Television News] reporter James Brittan said he had seen a group of about 30 white farmers in bakkies about 10km outside Mmabatho. "They were all driving farm vehicles and we asssume they were AWB members. They then turned off the main road and we followed them for a short way before returning to Mmabatho," he said. SA Police said on Thursday night they are aware that of a group of at least 200 rightwingers had moved from Zeerust to a place close to Bophuthatswana. Western Transvaal police spokesman Capt Koos Degenaar told SAPA police were aware of the rightwing movements. The SAP [South African Police] was not able to ascertain exactly where the group was gathering and therefore could not act. He said police in the Western Transvaal had "sharpened our patrols along the Bophuthatswana borders because of all the unrest" in the homeland. He said the SAP could not act outside of South Africa but were making an extra effort to patrol the borders.
