FBIS3-56784 "drsov014bb_94002" FBIS-SOV-94-014 Document Type:Daily Report 21 January 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Pastukhov Outlines Talks LD1401153494 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1431 GMT 14 Jan 94 LD1401153494 Moscow ITAR-TASS Language: English Article Type:BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Konstantin Pribytkov] [Text] Geneva January 14 TASS -- "Russia is ready to continue playing the role of mediator in the Abkhazian conflict. Our participation in the search for reconciliation will be most active, vigorous, and practical," ITAR-TASS was told by Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Boris Pastukhov, who headed the Russian delegation to the second round of Georgian-Abkhazian negotiations, held in Geneva from January 11-13. "The three-day intensive debates were rounded off by a joint communique, outlining the priority measures to settle the problem of refugees and to strengthen confidence and security. One more important step was made towards a full-scale settlement of the conflict," the Russian representative said. He believes that the mutually confirmed commitment of the sides not to resort to force or to threats to use it was among the main results of the meeting. "Both sides are now even more aware that stable peace cannot be ensured without international observers and peace-making forces. The sides, involved in the conflict, have expressed their common consent to see a Russian military contingent as part of the peacekeeping force. Russia will discharge peace-keeping functions if a corresponding decision is adopted by the Security Council and the Russian leadership. The number of the needed servicemen will be determined by the mandate issued by the U.N. Security Council," Pastukhov stated. "Agreement was reached that a team of experts would discuss in Moscow the key problem of the settlement -- the future political status of Abkhazia. As to the position of the United Nations, Russia and CSCE, they urge the sides in the communique to proceed from the need of ensuring Georgia's territorial integrity and to fully guarantee the interests of the entire multinational population of Abkhazia.
