FBIS3-9906 "drlat039_a_94017" FBIS-LAT-94-039 Document Type:Daily Report 28 Feb 1994 CARIBBEAN Cuba Education Minister on Quality of Teachers, System PA2402130394 Madrid EFE in Spanish 0108 GMT 20 Feb 94 PA2402130394 Madrid EFE Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Text] Havana, 19 Feb (EFE) -- Cuban Education Minister Luis Ignacio Gomez Gutierrez asserted today, "we don't have any unnecessary teachers" and, despite the island's economic problems, "no schools will be closed." The minister said in an interview published by the official GRANMA newspaper today: "In education, our criteria is that we don't have any unnecessary teachers or professors who have a vocation for this beautiful mission." "The Revolution will never relinquish this socialist victory and no school will be closed," the Cuban education minister stressed. "Education is the Revolution's colossal achievement; its most beautiful treasure. In the past 35 years, we have organized and implemented the most accomplished education system ever conceived in an underdeveloped country. Our system is comparable to those in many developed nations," Gomez Gutierrez added. The Cuban minister emphasized the good results obtained with the improvement of the education system's organization and study and textbook programs. "However, the country's most important achievement is the creation of a powerful army of teachers. They have been a decisive factor in the battle to attain quality education," he asserted. In this sense, Gomez indicated there are thousands of teachers in reserve "who are critical to being able to permanently improve the quality of teaching personnel." He observed that the current optimization of the education system "does not imply that personnel will be reduced. Rather, it will allow teachers, who are not currently required at schools during the next academic year, to further their academic training." The minister added that starting in September, the Upper-Level Teachers' Institute will organize several improvement courses. Also, teachers who have not completed their studies will be able to get their degrees. Gomez said the enhancement of the teachers' academic standing, due to its contents, "is essentially a political task."
