FBIS4-25821 "drchi115_k_94005" FBIS-CHI-94-115 Daily Report 13 Jun 1994 NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political & Social Tian Jiyun Inspects Fujian Province 7-13 Jun Tian Jiyun Inspects Fujian Province 7-13 Jun OW1506014594 Beijing XINHUA Domestic Service in Chinese 1114 GMT 13 Jun 94 OW1506014594 Beijing XINHUA Domestic Service Chinese BFN [Text] Fuzhou, 13 Jun (XINHUA) -- During his recent inspection of Fujian Province, Tian Jiyun, member of the CPC Central Committee Political Bureau and vice chairman of the National People's Congress Standing Committee, pointed out: It is necessary to stabilize and develop agriculture by every possible means, vigorously develop village and town enterprises, and make efforts to maintain the good momentum of the development of the three kinds of partially or wholly foreign-owned enterprises. Tian Jiyun stressed: While making vigorous efforts to stabilize and expand grain production, we must actively engage ourselves in diverse economic undertakings, develop a type of farming that provides high yields of fine quality with maximum efficiency, and increase peasants' income. He said: Integrated management of trade, industry, and agriculture must not be merely an integration in form without an integration between the interests of the three sectors. When their interests are integrated, peasants would increase production as well as their income and, thus, we would be able to further arouse peasants' enthusiasm for production and to guide them to the market. We must pay attention to exploration in this respect when we deepen reform in rural areas in the future. Tian Jiyun stressed: It is necessary to develop village and town enterprises by every possible means and vigorously encourage the development of enterprises run by individuals and privately run enterprises. We should look upon the development of the three kinds of partially or wholly foreign-owned enterprises and village and town enterprises as a driving force for state enterprises. They rely on, supplement, and promote each other. Various economic sectors must coexist, and more than one wheel is needed to expedite the drive to establish a socialist market economy. When Tian Jiyun heard that foreign businessmen are most worried about whether social stability can be maintained and whether policies can remain stable, he said: The overall situation of China's reform and opening up will remain unchanged. Reform and opening up accord with the trend of the times and the desire of the people. In more than 10 years, the state formulated a series of policies encouraging foreign businessmen to invest in China. These basic policies will remain unchanged. China enjoys social stability, adopts policies that give preferential treatment to foreign businessmen, and hopes they will commit investment without any worry and boldly go ahead with their investment projects, so as to maintain the good momentum of the development of the three kinds of partially or wholly foreign-owned enterprises. Accompanied by Jia Qinglin, secretary of the Fujian Provincial CPC Committee, and Yuan Qitong, vice chairman of the Standing Committee of the Fujian Provincial People's Congress, Tian Jiyun inspected Fuzhou, Quanzhou, Xiamen, and Zhangzhou between 7-13 June. He held discussion meetings with foreign businessmen, peasant entrepreneurs, and cadres at the grass-roots level.
