FBIS3-49849 "dreeu012aa_94003" FBIS-EEU-94-012 Document Type:Daily Report 19 January 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Delegations in Geneva Discuss Bosnia Peace Milosevic, Silajdzic Comment LD1801230394 Belgrade TANJUG Domestic Service in Serbo-Croatian 2158 GMT 18 Jan 94 LD1801230394 Belgrade TANJUG Domestic Service Language: Serbo-Croatian Article Type:BFN [Text] Geneva, 18 Jan (TANJUG) -- The opening day of the Geneva negotiations ended this evening with extremely reserved assessments and forecasts by its participants, but with agreement that the dialogue be continued tomorrow. Following the conclusion of bilateral negotiations with Muslim representatives, Serbian President Slobodan Milosevic stated that the degree of understanding is "to put it mildly, very, very modest." He added that he does not wish to judge it in advance, because they agreed to continue the negotiations tomorrow. According to Milosevic, the Serb side has practically fulfilled European Union demands that the Muslims in Bosnia get 33.3 percent of the territory, but, as he put it, the Muslim side has rejected this. Milosevic said that the conditions exist for this bloody war to end, and this is the essence of everything. However, he noted that an endless dialogue is being conducted with the Muslim delegation, as it has continued to put forward fresh demands. "It is high time that peace was signed, after which bilateral or trilateral talks on coordinating contentious issues can continue," Milosevic said. Referring to a Serbian-Croatian dialogue in the Palais des Nations this afternoon, Milosevic said that a high degree of understanding was achieved. He added that an identical approach to solving the crisis in Bosnia-Herzegovina exists. Haris Silajdzic, prime minister in the pro-Muslim government, said that no progress was made in the talks with the Serbian side. He found it appropriate to express his regret that the "international community and the Western diplomacy do not support Bosnia, are maintaining the arms embargo and thus enabling an aggression and spread of fascism in Bosnia." Silajdzic stressed that the Muslim side did not put forward fresh demands in this round of negotiations, apart from insisting on 33.5 percent of the territory and the return of "territories seized by force." According to Silajdzic, the biggest concession made by the Muslim delegation was that it accepted three ethnic republics within a union, to the detriment of keeping an undivided Bosnia.
