FBIS3-41323 "jptdd008__l94031" JPRS-TDD-94-008-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Narcotics 23 February 1994 LATIN AMERICA ECUADOR Details of `Operation Nortenito' Reported Three Others Captured 94WD0198B Guayaquil EL UNIVERSO in Spanish 22 Jan 94 p 11 94WD0198B Guayaquil EL UNIVERSO Language: Spanish Article Type:CSO [Excerpt] The number of persons captured by the National Police in connection with "Operation Nortenito" has risen to 10. This operation made it possible to discover half a ton of cocaine ready for shipment to the United States. The last three to be arrested are Hugo Segura Hurtado and Oswaldo William Rivera Cabezas, both corporals in the Customs Military Police [PMA] on active duty, and the civilian, Jaime Oswaldo Suarez Valencia. They Were Evading Immigration Inspection The Interpol chief in Guayas, Lieutenant Colonel Abraham Correa, claimed that both Segura Hurtado and Rivera Cabezas were working at the Guayaquil airport, and had connections with the drug trafficking ring. They were linked, in particular, with Kleber Delgado Delgado (also in custody), who was responsible for delivering the drugs to them, concealed in various export items. According to the investigations, both members of the Customs Military Police were assigned to prevent drug shipments from getting through the immigration screening process. However, they had managed to put shipments aboard airplanes bound for the United States. Interpol agents, who were pursuing the drug traffickers, discovered Delgado delivering several packages to the corporals. Consequently, Interpol coordinated its action with the headquarters of the Customs Military Police, an agency that arrested Segura and Hurtado. Both were turned over to the National Police last Wednesday morning. The two subjects in custody were moved to the Second Guayas Command, where they are being held along with the Colombians, Alfredo Arturo Benavidez Coral, Juan Carlos Gamba Garcia, and Mario Fernando Jurado Portilla, as well as the Ecuadorians, Kleber Eudoro Delgado Delgado, Ivan Gerardo Pineda Flores, Luis Fernando Mejia Tarupi, and Nelson Orlando Benavidez Medina. Another Arrest Finally, last Thursday morning, the Interpol agents captured Jaime Oswaldo Suarez Valencia at the Guayaquil airport. In the statements made by several of those implicated who were captured, it was claimed that Suarez played a part in the drug trafficking crime under investigation. It was also learned that the counternarcotics agents are tracking at least six more persons said to be seriously implicated in the drug traffic. Confiscated Assets Shown Yesterday morning, the National Police organized a tour of the properties confiscated from the drug traffickers captured in "Operation Nortenito." These assets include a residence in the Los Albatros housing complex owned by Kleber Delgado Delgado; a warehouse located at Km 4 of Juan Tanca Marengo Avenue, where the drug dealers had been storing and packing the drugs brought from Colombia; and an office located on the second floor of the building at 418 Chimborazo and Clemente Ballen Streets, where the Intersis office, owned by Delgado, is operated. [passage omitted]
