FBIS4-14009 "drnes080dd_94004" FBIS-NES-94-080 Daily Report 25 Apr 1994 Palestinian Affairs Commentary: Fatah-Hamas Pact `Widely Welcomed' Commentary: Fatah-Hamas Pact `Widely Welcomed' JN2604103694 Sanaa Voice of Palestine in Arabic 1800 GMT 25 Apr 94 JN2604103694 Sanaa Voice of Palestine Arabic BFN [Station commentary by Yahya Rabah, Palestinian ambassador in Sanaa] [Excerpts] The pact announced last 22 April between Fatah and the Islamic Resistance Movement, Hamas, has been widely welcomed by all segments of the Palestinian community, both inside and outside the homeland. [passage omitted] Against this backdrop came the pact between Fatah and Hamas -- a pact that has been widely welcomed and that defies Israel and underscores the ability of principal Palestinian forces to frustrate those who are wagering on Palestinian infighting, which is preached by outside circles, including the Israelis. As for the Palestinian opposition factions, no matter what their political persuasion -- Islamic, nationalist, or leftist -- there is an audible dialogue going on asking such questions as these: What is our position? What is our role? How are we perceived by our people? And, increasingly, difficult questions are being asked. Regrettably, certain Palestinian opposition leaders are still locked in a vicious circle and spitting out old slogans that have grown out of touch with reality and are clinging to others surrounded by [word indistinct]. However, instead of losing patience, the PLO leadership should display a spirit of national understanding and tolerance. This is because the Palestinian homeland stands in need of all its sons, and it will take considerable effort to establish an independent Palestinian state. The easy way out and haphazard policies cannot hold out for long. The remarkable Palestinian journey from exile to the homeland will infuse the Palestinian people with an enormous measure of [word indistinct] with self and to slough off illusions and [word indistinct] false offensive. Brothers: The Fatah-Hamas pact will create new mechanisms to promote further successes. We have opened the door wide for diaspora Palestinians to participate in the national march in the face of adverse and untoward circumstances. We may as well open the door even wider for a national effort inside the homeland within the framework of the state, entity, and independence.
