FBIS4-18571 "drweu067_n_94005" FBIS-WEU-94-067 Daily Report 23 Mar 1994 NORDIC COUNTRIES Norway * Paper on Center Party Leader's Broad Appeal * Paper on Center Party Leader's Broad Appeal 94P20606A Oslo AFTENPOSTEN in Norwegian 23 Mar 94 p 14 94P20606A Oslo AFTENPOSTEN Norwegian CSO [Editorial: "`No' Kings?"] [Text] Following her indisputable election success of last year, Center Party leader Anne Enger Lahnstein has been unofficially crowned "no" queen in the fight against Norwegian EU [European Union] membership. She may decline this sort of compliment, but we cannot conceal the fact that this is a role she fills a lot better than the yes side might have had reason to hope. Far from excluding those not connected with the farming sector, she has in fact served as a political magnet for groups far removed from it. Therefore, we raise an eyebrow or two at the concern now voiced by Kjell Magne Bondevik, the Christian People's Party leader, and Erik Solheim, his counterpart in the Socialist Left Party. They say they fear Lahnstein's dominant position will weaken the good cause since there will not be a no majority [in the referendum] if the farmers are the only ones wanting to keep Norway out of the EU. Without a trace of the modesty so strongly warranted in this situation, they say that the no side would be better off if the two of them were allowed center stage. The two party leaders have chosen a strange way to express this concern. Their method speaks less of shrewdness than of PR hunger. Of course it is no fun to remain in the shadows when the sun is bathing another leader in its light. Messrs. Bondevik and Solheim do, however, have a chance of getting a place in the warm, desirable light of politics. They can accomplish this by quitting their worrying and whining and instead use a little energy to develop some thoughts on where a Norway outside the EU will stand globally and in the Nordic context. We are all most interested in this question that appears to be quite the intellectual challenge for the two of them.
