FBIS3-20030 "drweu058_n_94003" FBIS-WEU-94-058 Document Type:Daily Report 24 Mar 1994 NORDIC COUNTRIES Finland Ahtisaari Receives Croatian Foreign Minister LD2403120694 Zagreb Radio Croatia Network in Serbo-Croatian 1100 GMT 24 Mar 94 LD2403120694 Zagreb Radio Croatia Network Language: Serbo-Croatian Article Type:BFN [Text] Finnish President Martti Ahtisaari received Mate Granic, Croatian deputy prime minister and minister of foreign affairs in the presidential palace in Helsinki today. Zdenka Kardum reporting from Helsinki: [Kardum] Finland has been intensely following all developments in Croatia and Bosnia-Herzegovina. It has been present in the area through its international peace negotiators and its UNPROFOR [UN Protection Force] units in Croatia and Bosnia-Herzegovina. After the signing of the Washington agreement, Finland for the first time deems there is a possibility to restore peace in Croatia and Bosnia-Herzegovina. This was stated following talks with Finnish President Ahtisaari in the presidential palace in Helsinki today by Granic. Granic described their talks -- which were held behind closed doors -- as interesting and open, stressing that the Finnish president was an expert on our area, as he was one of the negotiators at the international peace conference in Geneva. Finland's share in sending humanitarian aid to Croatia has been considerable, and it is also ready to offer aid in the future, both in the humanitarian field and through the deployment of its UNPROFOR units. It is interested in comprehensive economic, scientific, and cultural cooperation with our country. Finnish President Ahtisaari has accepted an invitation from Croatian President Franjo Tudjman to visit our country. Granic also had talks today with his Finnish counterpart Heikki Haavisto. Haavisto also accepted Granic's invitation to visit Croatia, on which occasion the two ministers are to sign agreements on economic, scientific, technical, and cultural cooperation. The Croatian foreign minister has also met the chairman of the foreign affairs committee of the Finnish parliament and is expected to meet the Finnish parliament speaker in the course of the afternoon.
