FBIS3-24780 "drafr021_a_94001" FBIS-AFR-94-021 Document Type:Daily Report 1 Feb 1994 CENTRAL AFRICA Burundi Extensive Damage, Violence Reported in Bujumbura EA3101202994 Bujumbura Radio-Television Nationale du Burundi Radio in Kirundi 1700 GMT 31 Jan 94 EA3101202994 Bujumbura Radio-Television Nationale du Burundi Radio Language: Kirundi Article Type:BFN [Excerpt] As you have heard, no work was done today in Bujumbura town. Streets have been closed off since this morning, and tension has prevailed in the suburbs. We do not know everything that has been damaged, but it has been said that houses have been burned in Musaga. For this reason, the secretary of state for security and the interim minister for territorial administration and communal development, Lieutenant Colonel Gakoryo Lazare, gave the following address on today's events. [Begin Gakoryo recording] Today, 31 January, the peace was disturbed in Bujumbura because of roadblocks preventing people from reporting to work and going to the markets and preventing shops from opening. Yesterday evening, leaflets telling people not to work were distributed in bars and houses. Very early this morning, youths began to erect roadblocks on some Bujumbura streets, especially in Ngagara, Musaga, Kinanira, and Kanyosha. This has led to the following problems: Work has come to a halt, in both the government and private sector; markets were not well attended, therefore most families did not buy goods; almost all vehicles were at a halt, especially in the morning, so very few people could move from one area to another and the sick could not be taken to hospital; ethnic tension erupted, especially in the zones of Musaga and Kinanira. But peace is slowly returning this evening. Extensive damage has been reported. Some houses were either demolished or burned in Musaga and Kinanira. Goods were looted due to the tension that prevailed in the aforementioned suburbs. There are reports of deaths and injuries. [passage omitted] [end recording]
