FBIS3-14808 "drsov039_b_94019" FBIS-SOV-94-039 Document Type:Daily Report 28 Feb 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political Issues Khasbulatov Not To Engage in Politics LD2702153994 Moscow INTERFAX in English 1426 GMT 27 Feb 94 LD2702153994 Moscow INTERFAX Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] The former chairman of Russia's parliament, Ruslan Khabulatov, has said in an exclusive interview with Interfax's correspondent V.Terekhov that he has no intention of engaging in political activity. He has "a strong aversion for today's politicians", he explained. "I see no genuine politicians in this country; in its leadership I see no people with whom an agreement could be reached, who would honour their commitments. As compared with them Machiavelli is a child. As for me, I attach particular importance to moral standards in politics," said the former chairman of Russia's parliament. He intends to engage in taking an inventory of his papers, Khasbulatov said. "Ironically enough, I concluded two volumes of "World Economics and International Economic Relations" by September 21st," he said. This book exposes "the entire absurdity of economic reforms in Russia", he added. Khabulatov believes that, had he not been released from Lefortovo under the State Duma resolution, he would have gained freedom anyway for a number of reasons. "First of all, for the reason that the investigators failed to confirm my guilt, and, secondly, because of my health," he noted. The tribulations of the past few months affected his health, he said. "I experienced pains in my heart for the first time ever, and so I'll have to take care of my health in earnest," he said. "During investigations it became clear that I was not responsible for the attempts to seize the mayoralty and the TV center. I addressed people after that, not knowing about the bloody fighting in Ostankino," Khasbulatov said. When asked about the possibility of returning the amnestied men to Lefortovo, Khasbulatov said: such an attempt would "only emphasize the stupidity of those who may seek to organize this".
