FBIS4-56111 "dreeu103_r_94001" FBIS-EEU-94-103 Daily Report 25 May 1994 ROMANIA Foreign Ministry Official Comments on Crimea Foreign Ministry Official Comments on Crimea AU2505205194 Bucharest Radio Romania Network in Romanian 1900 GMT 25 May 94 AU2505205194 Bucharest Radio Romania Network Romanian BFN [Telephone interview with Foreign Ministry Spokeswoman Simona Miculescu by an unidentified correspondent on 25 May -- recorded] [Text] [Correspondent] We have phoned you because we would like to know the opinion of the Romanian Foreign Ministry on the events in the Crimea. [Miculescu] Good evening. Certainly I am going to answer you with greatest pleasure, as I do every time for the Romanian Radio Station. I could say that the Romanian side is following the evolution of situation in Ukraine with great attention. In connection with the recent events in Crimea, events that, as a matter of fact, are the subject of much information issued in the Romanian and foreign press, the Romanian Ministry of Foreign Affairs believes that this represents an internal problem of Ukraine, because Crimea is part and parcel of this neighboring country of Romania. Likewise, I would like to mention that we assess the careful attitude adopted by the authorities of the Russian Federation on this issue as a positive sign. I would like to conclude by expressing hope that this situation will be solved through political means and it is our belief that the consolidation of independence and stability in Ukraine is very important for the entire region and Europe in general. [Correspondent] Thus, if the situation is settled through political means, in view of this settlement, what are the actions planned by the Romanian diplomacy to intensify relations with Ukraine, a country that is our neighbor? [Miculescu] Certainly we hope that this political settlement will come as soon as possible, and in practical terms, as you well know, obviously we will work for the development and consolidation of bilateral relations with this neighboring country and we will amplify political dialogue at all levels. However, at the appropriate time, we are going to inform you about all details and I hope we will be able to give you those details as soon as possible. [Correspondent] In fact we wanted to find out whether there is any immediate action on the diplomatic agenda of the Romanian foreign minister in connection with Ukraine. [Miculescu] There are no immediate plans, but we will inform you at the appropriate time, as we do every time. [Correspondent] Thank you very much for this interview. [Miculescu] It was my great pleasure.
