FBIS4-66346 "jpcst008___94052" JPRS-CST-94-008 JPRS Science & Technology China 4 May 1994 Science & Technology Telecommunications Major Campaign for Information Highways Under Way Major Campaign for Information Highways Under Way IBM to Invest in Data Network 40100063B Beijing CHINA DAILY in English 4 May 94 p 2 40100063B Beijing CHINA DAILY English CSO [Article by Pei Jianfeng: ``IBM to Invest in Data Network''] [Text] International Business Machines (IBM) will invest at least $100 million in information technology projects in China, the U.S. computer giant announced yesterday in Beijing. This will include being the first foreign company to be involved in the country's top information infrastructure project. ``It is a major step in relations between IBM and China and will be beneficial to both sides,'' said IBM Vice-President Robert M. Stephenson. The deals come under a memorandum of understanding signed last Thursday in the U.S. between Big Blue and the Ministry of Electronics Industry during Chinese Vice-Premier Zou Jiahua's visit. The first project will set up a joint venture in Beijing with Jitong Communications Company, which oversees the Three Golden Projects, China's information infrastructure plan. The massive project aims to set up economic information networks across the country covering banking, customs and inter-governmental exchanges. The joint venture will produce networking technologies to support the plan. In the first phase, it will help design and install regional communications networks and link them into a national system, said Robert M. Savage, Chairman of IBM China Company Ltd. He said IBM will pump several million dollars into the venture, which will be finalized in 6 weeks. More importantly, the company will bring in experts from its system integration divisions in the U.S. and Europe, he said. IBM has been named as consultant to the project as well as other technology proposals by the Ministry of Electronics Industry. Under the memorandum of understanding, IBM will establish a wholly-owned software development centre in Shanghai to develop system and application programmes for the domestic and foreign markets, Stephenson said. It will also set up three open system networking centres in Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou. In return, China pledged to use IBM's PowerPC platform as one of the major microprocessors in planning the country's future. PowerPC, a chip jointly developed by IBM, Apple and Motorola, seeks to break Intel's world monopoly on the computer.
