FBIS3-37777 "drsov036_v_94005" FBIS-SOV-94-036 Document Type:Daily Report 23 Feb 1994 Lithuania Treaty With Poland Seeks To Preserve History WS2202212694 Tallinn BNS in English 1920 GMT 22 Feb 94 WS2202212694 Tallinn BNS Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Vilnius, Feb 22, BNS -- "The Vilnius problem will surely be mentioned in one or another form in the treaty with Poland," said Albinas Januska, Lithuanian deputy minister of foreign affairs. Januska said Lithuanian and Polish positions on the estimation of disputed historic events have "sufficiently drawn closer." Therefore it became possible "to choose formulas that would satisfy both sides," he said. A delegation of Lithuanian negotiators, led by Vladislovas Domarkas, deputy minister of foreign affairs, left for Warsaw Monday [21 February], to continue talks on some disputed clauses of the Lithuanian-Polish agreement on friendship and cooperation. Januska regretted that his Polish counterpart Iwo Byczewski, who heads the Polish negotiation team, "speaks widely about things that might only become a result of talks." The Polish news agency PAP quoted Byczewski as saying that Lithuania gave up its intentions to sign a separate declaration on the 1920 annexation of Vilnius together with the main agreement. Lithuanian radio said Monday that the Polish official expressed doubt whether history will be discussed in detail, except for several "general" sentences in the preamble of the accord. In Januska's opinion, the return of history to the text is considered a positive step but "not just another concession of the Lithuanian side. "It seems, we have reached a stage when a return to the initial formula can be made -- to include everything in one treaty, and this makes things more significant." Lithuania sought to mention the annexation of Vilnius in the main agreement from the very beginning of interstate talks, but when Poland disagreed, the Lithuanian side suggested to move history to a separate declaration that would be signed simultaneously. The Lithuanian negotiators are scheduled to return from Poland Feb. 23.
