FBIS3-38620 "drweu024_h_94006" FBIS-WEU-94-024 Document Type:Daily Report 4 Feb 1994 GERMANY Concern About Fundamentalist Threat Growing AU0302132394 Munich SUEDDEUTSCHE ZEITUNG in German 3 Feb 94 p 7 AU0302132394 Munich SUEDDEUTSCHE ZEITUNG Language: German Article Type:BFN ["eli/ub"-signed report: "Europe Threatened by Missiles"] [Text] Bonn -- There is an increasing fear in the Federal Government of fundamentalist movements in the Mediterranean and of a threat to Europe by medium-range missiles. Reports say that Chancellor Kohl will comment on this threat at the Military Defense Meeting in Munich next weekend, drawing particular attention to the worsening security situation in the Mediterranean. The concern is due to developments in Algeria and the growing influence of fundamentalist forces in the North African states. The stability of the entire region is threatened, reports said. According to intelligence service information, the government thinks that in the event of the fundamentalists coming to power, Western Europe could be threatened by missiles of a range up to 1,000 kilometers within a very short time. It is alleged that Iraq might provide such missiles. The Federal Government is also concerned about the situation in the Mediterranean because of France's obligations in Algeria. French Government circles are alleged to have asked Germany for support in an Algeria plan. In his speech at the Military Defense Meeting, Kohl will hint at these threats, and he will also discuss the situation of the Bundeswehr in detail. Kohl is guided by the idea that the Bundeswehr needs clear perspectives and that the wave of savings must come to an end. During last year's Military Defense Meeting, the chancellor ordered a Bundeswehr reorganization. So far, decreasing budgets have, however, prevented the Bundeswehr reforms from being carried out. At the Military Defense Meeting, Chancellor Kohl and his challenger in the upcoming elections, Social Democratic Party Chairman Rudolf Scharping, will meet; but there will probably not be a direct confrontation. The organizers had planned that, as a special attraction, Kohl and Scharping should each give a 20-minute talk consecutively, followed by discussion. Kohl said he wants to talk in the morning and leave after the discussion on his speech, because he has other commitments. He said Scharping could speak in the afternoon.
