FBIS4-34357 "drlat118_i_94001" FBIS-LAT-94-118 Daily Report 17 Jun 1994 Nicaragua Chamorro `Optimistic' Over Cartagena Summit Chamorro `Optimistic' Over Cartagena Summit PA1906010894 Managua Sistema Nacional de Television Network in Spanish 0200 GMT 17 Jun 94 PA1906010894 Managua Sistema Nacional de Television Network in Spanish 0200 GMT 17 Jun 94 Spanish BFN [Report by Erika Ramirez from the "National Newscast; passages in quotation marks recorded] [Text] President Violeta Chamorro was visibly optimistic upon returning from the Fourth Ibero-American Summit in Cartagena, Colombia. The president said she expects good news from the negotiations with the consultative council in Paris. President Chamorro's optimism could not be hidden. The Ibero-American presidents decided that countries such as Nicaragua should receive preferential and asymmetrical treatment in the integration processes. Venezuela and Colombia agreed to be nonregional associates of the Central American Bank of Economic Integration, BCIE, a decision that will increase the social investment funds available to fight poverty. [Chamorro] "I want to tell you that Nicaragua is no longer disregarded. It is seen as a country living in democracy, with great joy, and with its head up high. I am proud that all of you and all Nicaraguans are cooperating for the welfare of the country." The president told journalists that tomorrow she might receive good news from the consultative group in Paris. As for domestic topics, she talked about the criticisms that have emerged regarding the military law. [Chamorro] "If they want to criticize it and discuss it, let them do it in the Assembly. That is called democracy. This country needs a small army and police force. We do not need the number of weapons we used to have. What for? Aren't we burning them up already? That is how I see it. Perhaps the next president will not want an army, but we are going to have a small army now." As for the list of alleged companies belonging to the Army, she said she did not know about it but will study it tomorrow. She also said that Nicaragua has secular education and would not reform any constitutional article in this regard. [Chamorro] "I am not asking anyone to attend special classes. If they want to attend those classes, they may do so. They also have the right to attend church and cults if they so desire." The president pointed out that the National Assembly has the duty to decide if it will approve the military code and the constitutional reforms. She said that what she wants is mutual respect among government branches.
