FBIS4-6227 "dreas075_n_94002" FBIS-EAS-94-075 Daily Report 15 Apr 1994 Vietnam Russian Deputy Prime Minister Continues Visit Russian Deputy Prime Minister Continues Visit Holds News Conference BK1804092394 Hanoi Voice of Vietnam Network in Vietnamese 1100 GMT 15 Apr 94 BK1804092394 Hanoi Voice of Vietnam Network Vietnamese BFN [Report by Correspondent Dinh Khai on the news conference given by Russian Deputy Prime Minister Yuriy Yarov in Hanoi on 15 April] [Summary] Russian Prime Minister Yuriy Yarov, chairman of the Russian-Vietnamese Intergovernmental Committee for Economic, Trade, and Science and Technology Cooperation, was in Vietnam to attend the third working session of the committee. To conclude the working visit, Mr. Yarov held a news conference. At the news conference, Mr. Yarov reported on the results of the third session of the intergovernmental committee and the visit of the delegation to the Hoa Binh Hydroelectricity Plant. He revealed that Russia will continue its cooperation with Vietnam in power projects; in the joint venture in oil exploitation; in upgrading factories, including the Lao Cai Apatite Factory; and in post and telegraphic services. The Russian and Vietnamese sides both agreed to set up working groups to speed up cooperation. He also revealed that "the next working session of the intergovernmental committee will be held in the first quarter of 1995 in Moscow, and he hoped that by then a Vietnamese electronic assembly factory would have been set up in Moscow." Mr. Graskov, vice chairman of the intergovernmental committee, talked about "certain difficulties in receiving items of merchandise that Vietnam uses to pay for its debts to the Russian Federation. We want the goods to be in greater quantity compared with the existing ones, more diversified, and of better quality with more competitive prices." He also said the "Russian side has created conditions for Vietnamese goods to get into the Russian market, and hence we expect similar action from the Vietnamese side, primarily to create conditions for Russian machinery and equipment to access the Vietnamese market."
