FBIS4-1506 "drafr083_cs94005" FBIS-AFR-94-083-S Daily Report 29 Apr 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA IEC Chairman Comments on Ballot Counting Plans IEC Chairman Comments on Ballot Counting Plans MB2904122594 Johannesburg SABC TV 1 Network in English 1000 GMT 29 Apr 94 MB2904122594 Johannesburg SABC TV 1 Network English BFN [Report on news conference by IEC Chairman Johann Kriegler at IEC headquarters in Midrand on 29 April] [Text] IEC [Independent Electoral Commission] chairman, Justice Johann Kriegler, has described the election as an outstanding success despite the hitches that occurred in some areas. He outlined the next process in the election -- namely, the counting of votes -- an a news conference at the IEC headquarters in Midrand a short while ago. [Begin Kriegler recording] We can't actually commence counting in areas where the voting has been completed before voting has ended in the other six areas. It is not proper to have counting while there is still voting on the go, because it may affect the view of voters. In the second instance, the addition of an extra day in those six areas has required a change in our counting procedures. The third-day votes have to be kept separate; they will be counted but they have to be kept separate. That infers a fairly complex change in instructions to some 700 voting stations around the country. And then thirdly of course, many of the people engaged in the voting process, the voting officers, are also to be involved in the counting process, and because they're still engaged in the first phase they're simply not available yet for the second phase. What this means, further, is that in the counting procedure we have to be especially careful and meticulous. That will be time consuming. Moreover, the administrative shortcomings which resulted in last minute urgent adjustments by the IEC, will undoubtedly result, and has to some extent already resulted in political parties raising objections -- to a greater extent which otherwise has been the case. The determination of those objections which are relevant to the counting or the ultimate allocation phase is also time consuming. This means in a nutshell, that we must be patient. We have come a tremendously long way; it's gone astoundingly well around the country. [end recording]
