FBIS3-38635 "drweu024__a94051" FBIS-WEU-94-024-A Document Type:Daily Report 4 February 1994 ANNEX Switzerland Swiss Recognize International Tribunal for War Crimes BR0402093994 Bern ATSA/SDAA in French 1045 GMT 2 Feb 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY BR0402093994 Bern ATSA/SDAA Language: French Article Type:BFN [Article signed SK: "War Crimes In Former Yugoslavia: Switzerland Recognizes Authority of International Tribunal"; as released by Bern ATSA/SDAA database] [Text] Bern, 2 Feb (ATS) -- Switzerland recognizes the authority of the international tribunal for judging war crimes in the former Yugoslavia. On Wednesday [2 February], the Federal Council decided that Switzerland will autonomously implement UN resolution 827 although it is not a member of the organization. It thinks that the tribunal's action is likely to strengthen the implementation of international humanitarian law. Switzerland has already helped to draw up the legal bases. UN Security Council resolution 827 of 25 May 1993 creates a tribunal to judge people presumed responsible for serious violations of international humanitarian law on the territory of the former Yugoslavia since 1991. This tribunal began its work last November. Comprising 11 judges elected by the UN General Assembly, it has its seat in The Hague. A prosecutor appointed by the UN Security Council -- Venezuelan Ramon Escovar-Salom -- will be responsible for prosecution. All states are obliged to cooperate with the tribunal whether or not they are UN members. An Urgent Decree Switzerland is not legally bound by the UN resolutions, because it is not a UN member. The Federal Council can, however, decide to implement them autonomously. Switzerland, the depositary of the Geneva Conventions for the Protection of the Victims of War, has a special moral responsibility in this sphere. It condemns violations of international humanitarian law, especially in the former Yugoslavia. On Wednesday, the Federal Council tasked the federal justice and police, and foreign affairs departments with drawing up an urgent federal decree of a general nature relating to implementation of resolution 827. The statute of the tribunal, which accompanies the resolution, will also be implemented. A legislative document is necessary in view of the obligations which the resolution imposes on the Swiss authorities. Active Contribution Switzerland has contributed to drawing up the legal bases for the tribunal. A meeting of about a dozen legal advisers of the European countries' foreign ministries was held in Geneva on 8 and 9 February last year. Switzerland has also drawn up a report on serious violations of the Geneva Conventions and international humanitarian law in the former Yugoslavia, which was submitted to the United Nations in November. This report was based on evidence from Bosnians, mainly Muslims, who have taken refuge in Switzerland.
