FBIS3-29033 "dreas031__a94005" FBIS-EAS-94-031-A Document Type:Daily Report 15 February 1994 ANNEX Japan Business Leaders Comment on Draft 1994 Budget OW1102055294 Tokyo Nikkei Telecom Database in Japanese 11 Feb 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY OW1102055294 Tokyo Nikkei Telecom Database Language: Japanese Article Type:BFN [From NIHON KEIZAI SHIMBUN 11 February Morning Edition] [Text] Some business leaders have given high marks to the draft 1994 budget presented by the Finance Ministry, saying it has given considerable consideration to spending for economic recovery despite tight financial conditions. Gaishi Hiraiwa, chairman of Keidanren [Japan Federation of Economic Organizations], said: "I frankly welcome it since it has given major consideration to spending related to public works projects." Business circles have urged the government to compile the third supplementary budget and the fiscal 1994 budget -- which together cover "a 15-month period" -- to avoid budget interruption. Also, there have been strong demands within business circles for further cuts in expenditures. Business leaders are divided over whether the allocation of outlays for public works projects have been fully reviewed in the draft budget. Kosaku Inaba, chairman of the Japan Chamber of Commerce and Industry, spoke highly of the draft budget, saying: "It has placed emphasis on spending for housing and sewerage construction, which will lead to a higher quality of living for the people." Meanwhile, Osamu Uno, chairman of Kansai Economic Federation, said: "I do not see any remarkable results in the draft," and added, "I expect the government to drastically review the fixed budget allocation." Masaru Hayami, chairman of Keizai Doyukai [Japan Association of Corporate Executives], said: "Drastic cuts in expenditures should be sought through a complete review of outlays for individual ministries and agencies." With regard to negotiations between the Foreign Ministry and other government offices over reinstatement of budget requests, Hiraiwa said: "While taking international relations into consideration, the government should invest more money in a new social infrastructure such as science and technology, housing, information communication, and welfare." In this way, he indirectly noted the need to review defense and Official Development Assistance budgets. Commenting on the 2.4-percent growth for the fiscal 1994 GDP [gross domestic product] forecast by the government, Hayami said: "This is a very high estimate. From our viewpoint, it is almost impossible to achieve such rapid growth. The government should devise measures to accurately forecast the actual state of the economy."
