FBIS4-60027 "drnes098_a_94001" FBIS-NES-94-098 Daily Report 18 May 1994 ARAB AFRICA Algeria President Zeroual Makes Defense Appointments President Zeroual Makes Defense Appointments PM1805151294 London AL-SHARQ AL-AWSAT in Arabic 18 May 94 pp1, 4 PM1805151294 London AL-SHARQ AL-AWSAT Arabic BFN [Report by Qusayy Salih Darwish: "Appointments in Algerian Army To Strengthen Pro-Dialogue Trend"] [Excerpts] President Liamine Zeroual has continued his series of changes within the Algerian Army. He has appointed Brigadier General Tayeb Darragi and Brigadier General Taghit as advisers at the Defense Ministry. The two were previously Army inspector generals. He also appointed Atiqi Lakhdar as chief of staff of the National Gendarmerie, replacing Brigadier General Ahmed Boustila, who was summoned for other duties. These appointments show that President Zeroual continues to appoint officers close to him to sensitive posts and to keep away officers opposed to his political line by giving them administrative posts as in the case of Brig. Gen. Taghit who is considered to be close to the trend opposed to dialogue. Furthermore, the removal of Boustila from the gendarmerie command will completely destroy what is left of the influence of Brigadier General Abbas Ghzayl who kept his post as Gendarmerie Commander at the last moment, after a decision had been made to dismiss him. Abbas Ghzayl's health is deteriorating and that will enable Atiqi Lakhdar to become the real commander of the National Gendarmerie which is very important to the regime as far as security is concerned. [passage omitted] Meanwhile, informed sources speak of sharp differences between the [Islamic] Salvation Front [FIS] and the Armed Islamic Groups [GIA] following the assassination of the French priest and nun which was condemned by FIS and for which the GIA claimed responsibility. According to the same sources, the dialogue between the two stopped some time ago after the more extremist "Afghan" group assumed control within the GIA. As regards the dialouge with the authorities, FIS sources emphasize that Cheiks Ali Djeddi and Abdelqadir Boukhamkham were not allowed to visit Abbasi Madani and Ali Belhadj for consultation as agreed when they were released. As a result, contacts between the FIS leaders and the regime's officials were frozen. [passage omitted]
