FBIS4-21431 "jpten010___94016" JPRS-TEN-94-010 JPRS Environmental Issues 30 March 1994 EAST ASIA MALAYSIA Hazardous Waste Exports From OECD Countries Banned Hazardous Waste Exports From OECD Countries Banned BK3003093194 Kuala Lumpur BERNAMA in English 0354 GMT 30 Mar 94 BK3003093194 Kuala Lumpur BERNAMA English BFN [Text] Kuala Lumpur, March 30 (OANA-BERNAMA) -- The export of hazardous waste from the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) countries to non-OECD countries has been banned with immediate effect. The decision was reached during the second meeting of parties to the Basel convention on control of transboundary movement of hazardous wastes and disposal concluded in Geneva four days ago, after five days of intensive debate. A Foreign Ministry statement said here Tuesday that the meeting also decided that the export of hazardous waste from OECD countries, destined for recovery or recycling in non-OECD countries, should also cease on 31 December 1997, at the latest. The consensus was reached after long and difficult negotiations between the Group of 77, a grouping of developing nations and China, and leading opponent OECD countries led by Australia, Canada, Japan and the United States, it added. Science, Technology and Environment Minister Law Hieng Ding, who led the Malaysian delegation to the meeting, and his Danish counterpart played a key role in steering the political direction and decision in arriving at the landmark agreement, it said. In his address at the meeting, Law labelled the export of hazardous waste to developing countries as environmental crime, the statement said. He called on the OECD countries to uphold environmental justice and assist devaloping countries in environmental capacity building, it said. Law also informed the meeting about the illegal dumping of toxic tanker sludge in Malaysian waters and the attempt to seek exclusion of control under the Basel Convention. He said stern enforcement action would continue to be taken against any ship or tankers engaging in such activities in accordance with Malaysia's interpretation of the convention. Law warned that such ships would be detained and auctioned under Malaysian laws.
