FBIS4-30201 "dreas122_m_94005" FBIS-EAS-94-122 Daily Report 24 Jun 1994 Thailand `No Plot Exists' To Harm Nepal Prince `No Plot Exists' To Harm Nepal Prince BK2406085794 Bangkok BANGKOK POST in English 24 Jun 94 p 3 BK2406085794 Bangkok BANGKOK POST English BFN [Text] No plot exists, allegedly by two Pakistanis, to assassinate or otherwise harm the Nepalese crown prince, Police director-general Pratin Santipraphop said yesterday. He said there was a misunderstanding that Shakil Ammad, who is in police custody, and Mohammad Javet, who initially eluded police, had plotted to harm Crown Prince Dipendra bin Brikram Shadey at the Asian Institute of Technology [AIT]. Officers in charge of the case were told the two were engineers with a company in Thailand, he said. The two men went to the institute to use its telephone to make an overseas call instead of making the call at their hotel which would charge them more, Pol Gen [police general] Pratin said. When officials at the AIT asked to see their passports, the pair could not produce them because they had forgotten to bring them. They then escaped because they were afraid they would be questioned, he said. The Nepalese Embassy has also denied the plot suggestion. The crown prince attended a geography course at the institute. He begins his official visit to Thailand today and leaves on Monday. In a related development, Pakistan on Wednesday branded allegations that two Pakistanis planned to attack Nepal's Crown Prince Dipendra during his visit to Bangkok, a "smear campaign," intended to sabotage Pakistan-Nepal relations. "This has become a very serious smear campaign," Riaz Mahmud, Pakistan's Ambassador to Thailand, told AFP. "Definitely there was a motive of some kind involved." Ambassador Mahmud said he believed that Thai police who were quoted in the BANGKOK POST on Tuesday as saying there had been "hard evidence" linking two men to a plot -- had been used by an "outside agency." Pakistan and Nepal "are very close members in SARG (South Asian Regional Cooperation)," he said. "That may not be to everyone's liking," he said. He told AFP the embassy was questioning both Special Branch officials and POST employees over the matter, adding: "We should have some answers in a few days." Earlier on Wednesday, Kathmandu called the allegations "totally baseless and false." Both Ammad and Javet have denied any wrongdoing. sed on Wednesday to comment by phone on the case. The POST report which appeared in Tuesday's edition was based on an authoritative Special Branch report. Police have since reconfirmed that their investigations are continuing.
