FBIS3-51542 "drlat015_g_94008" FBIS-LAT-94-015 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Jan 1994 Guatemala President Warns of `Drastic Measures' If No Vote Wins PA2201145994 Guatemala City PRENSA LIBRE in Spanish 20 Jan 94 p 3 PA2201145994 Guatemala City PRENSA LIBRE Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Text] During a news conference held yesterday, President Ramiro de Leon Carpio warned that if the no vote wins in the popular consultation on constitutional reforms, he will adopt drastic measures within the law. He said a statesman must foresee criticism regarding electoral activity, and he, in effect, has planned several strategies that he will not disclose due to obvious reasons. He ruled out resorting to undemocratic activities such as dissolving Congress. De Leon Carpio's remarks were made merely 10 days before approximately 3.5 million Guatemalans of voting age will participate in the first referendum of its kind in the country's political history. After noting that he has prepared some "strategies" if the popular consultation fails, the reporters repeatedly asked him what will be the nature of these strategies, and the president said only: "You will learn about them in due time." De Leon Carpio also ruled out that the Supreme Electoral Tribunal will prohibit departmental tours, because his duty is to deliver the 8-percent constitutional fund to the municipalities and not to campaign for the yes vote, much less use state resources as speculated by certain people, he explained. "I trust that the results will be favorable, because the people do not want vices to continue at Congress and the Supreme Court. In fact, ever since I assumed office, they have been demanding a purge in the three [as published] organizations," he said. He said he respects the position of various popular sectors, including the Guatemalan National Revolutionary Unity (URNG), an organization that is urging a no vote. De Leon Carpio says the consultation will be a civic celebration in which all sectors will participate. De Leon Carpio rejected pressures from public employees who, he said, are asking for a salary increase in exchange for not interfering in the popular consultation. Regarding the energy policy, he said electricity rates have not yet been established. In conclusion, the president agreed with Vice President Arturo Herbruger Asturias who said "to vote no is to be totally insane."
