FBIS4-34247 "drlat117_b_94005" FBIS-LAT-94-117 Daily Report 16 Jun 1994 Barbados Haiti Sees Need for Elections; Military Parades Held Sees Need for Elections; Military Parades Held PA1606174894 Madrid EFE in Spanish 1614 GMT 16 Jun 94 PA1606174894 Madrid EFE Spanish BFN [Text] Port-au-Prince, 16 Jun (EFE) -- Emile Jonassaint, provisional president of Haiti, today said that presidential and legislative elections would provide the only way out of the crisis that has existed in the country since September 1991, when constitutional President Jean-Bertrand Aristide was deposed. In a message released to foreign reporters in Haiti, Jonassaint, who was placed in his post by the military in May, added that the international community is seeking to launch "an adventure in Haiti similar to the one launched by Pol Pot in Cambodia." In this way, the Haitian leader was referring to the embargo decreed by the United Nations, which is designed to force the Haitian military to leave power and fulfill the agreements signed with Jean-Bertrand Aristide, who was overthrown by a group of military leaders headed by General Raoul Cedras, chief of the Armed Forces. In his message to foreign reporters, the de facto president did not mention Aristide. On Wednesday, the Haitian Army staged parades in Port-au-Prince and in the provinces in support of Gen. Cedras. The parades were staged at a time when, according to sources close to the Haitian military, differences are beginning to emerge within the Army command. On Tuesday, differences were noted following statements by Evans Francois, who requested Gen. Cedras' resignation. Evans Francois is the brother and adviser of Police Chief Joseph Michel Francois. Evans Francois accused Cedras of being responsible for the crisis that exists in Haiti and of heading a "triumvirate" under the guise of Emile Jonassaint, a judge supported by the military to hold the post of chief of state and government. Although the Haitian police chief has denied any connection to his brother's remarks, telling the public and the Army that he does not support his brother's views, sources close to the military told EFE: "There are a number of large differences." The sources added: "There is a group demanding a way out, arguing that the status quo cannot continue much longer and demanding an honorable way out for the Army."
