FBIS4-37271 "drnes118_e_94002" FBIS-NES-94-118 Daily Report 19 Jun 1994 Mauritania Yemeni Minister Meets President, Makes Statement Yemeni Minister Meets President, Makes Statement LD1906222394 Nouakchott ORTM Radio in Arabic 1900 GMT 19 Jun 94 LD1906222394 Nouakchott ORTM Radio Arabic BFN [Excerpts] His Excellency President Maaouiya Ould Sid'Ahmed Taya today received Mr. Yahya Husayn al-'Arashi, minister of civil service and administrative reform in the sisterly Republic of Yemen, who is also the special envoy of Yemeni President 'Ali 'Abdallah Salih. [passage omitted] After the meeting, the Yemeni minister made the following statement to our colleague Zaidan: [Begin al-'Arashi recording] I am very happy with and honored by the reception by his excellency, the president. I was able to convey the message from Lieutenant-General 'Ali 'Abdallah Salih, the president of the Republic of Yemen. As you know, the bilateral Yemeni-Mauritanian relations -- which go back to historical times -- and the brotherly ties between the two presidents, the people, and the two governments, are given special importance by this continuity. Also, it should be mentioned that because of the current Yemeni situation to defend Yemeni unity, and what is going on in the Yemeni sphere, it was necessary to put the brother president in the picture and to brief him on the outcome of dialogue resulting from Arab and United Nations efforts. We believe that the cause of Yemeni unity -- which is the cause of all Arabs -- has the support and enthusiasm of the president, as confirmed during our meeting. This support is to consolidate Yemeni unity and democracy in Yemen. This is not only to strengthen Yemen and secure victory in the cause of unity, but to consolidate it with this satisfactory start on the Arab front. [sentence as heard] I cannot but express my thanks and gratitude in the name of Yemen, its government, people, and leadership on this occasion for the sentiments we received from the Mauritanian president, people, and government. Thank you very much. [end recording] [passage omitted]
