FBIS4-48881 "drchi084_b_94007" FBIS-CHI-94-084 Daily Report 29 Apr 1994 United States & General Chinese Scholar Named Head of Sino-U.S. Computer Committee Chinese Scholar Named Head of Sino-U.S. Computer Committee OW2904142694 Beijing XINHUA in English 1326 GMT 29 Apr 94 OW2904142694 Beijing XINHUA English BFN [Text] Beijing, April 29 (XINHUA) -- Chinese scholar Li Zhibin has recently been appointed as the chairman of the Sino-American Computer and International Software Development Bilateral Committee. This was announced here today by A. Nattrass, executive board member of the Sino-American Trade Development Council. Li, an associate professor of the Institute of Software of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, was chosen from an impressive list of nominees from the United States and China. Nattrass said that Li's appointment is a credit to the very high standard of expertise in China in the field of international software development. Robert E. Goodman, chairman of the Sino-American Trade Development Council, said that the 12-member bilateral committee, composed of distinguished computer experts from both the United States and China, would play a vital role in advancing cooperation between the two countries in the field of international software and computer development. The chairman also paid tribute to the Chinese Government's efforts and commitment to advancing technology to meet the needs of the computer age and said that U.S. business needs the Chinese to collaborate on mutually beneficial partnerships in the vital area of computer and software development. At a press conference here today, Nattrass also said that the Sino-American Trade Development Council has recommended to President Bill Clinton to renew China's most favored nation (MFN) status unconditionally and permanently, and his council predicted that the United States would do so. The Sino-American Trade Development Council was formed last year in Washington with a goal of helping set up cooperation between China and America in the fields of economic development, cultural understanding and business relations as well as bridging the gap between medium and small business enterprises of the two countries.
