FBIS3-46049 "drchi017_o_94004" FBIS-CHI-94-017 Document Type:Daily Report 26 Jan 1994 REGIONAL AFFAIRS East Region Fujian Leaders Discuss Problems With Factory Directors HK2601102994 Fuzhou Fujian People's Radio Network in Mandarin 2300 GMT 22 Jan 94 HK2601102994 Fuzhou Fujian People's Radio Network Language: Mandarin Article Type:BFN [Text] Yesterday afternoon provincial leaders Jia Qinglin, Wang Jianshuang, and Shi Xingmou met with managers and directors of several factories and enterprises in Fuzhou to discuss their difficulties and seek ways to resolve them. Provincial party Secretary and Governor Jia Qinglin requested that leaders of party committees and governments, as well as the relevant departments, visit enterprises and their employees' family members having difficulties, to deliver the warmth of the party and government. They should show concern for enterprises which have difficulties and their staff members' lives and regard this as their political task. The Jinjiang shipping company, the Fuzhou canned food factory, the Fuzhou livestock farm, and the Fuzhou fireproof materials factory, which are all having difficulties, reported to the provincial leaders on their situations. After listening to their reports, Jia Qinglin made an important speech. He said: This year is an important year for our province to [words indistinct]. There are factors causing difficulties currently arising in businesses. Leaders, the departments in charge of enterprises, and the enterprises themselves should actively seek ways to resolve their difficulties. In light of their special features and strong points, they should engage in diversified operations and explore tertiary industries. He added: Using land superiority and foreign capital for transformation is a good method to free enterprises from their difficulties. Leaders of governments and departments at all levels should also seek ways and opportunities to resolve these enterprises' problems and should improve the social insurance system so as to create good external conditions for these enterprises to eliminate their difficulties. Particular attention should now be paid to making good arrangements for staff members' lives so that they can spend the Spring Festival happily.
