FBIS4-55764 "dreeu098__a94011" FBIS-EEU-94-098-A Daily Report 17 May 1994 ANNEX Hungary MSZP, SZDSZ Officials Emphasize Similarities MSZP, SZDSZ Officials Emphasize Similarities AU1805074594 Budapest MTI in English 1746 GMT 17 May 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY AU1805074594 Budapest MTI English BFN [Text] Budapest, 17 May (MTI) -- Emphasizing the similar and complementary features of both of their parties' policy goals and fostering dialogue rather than debate was the main aim of today's electoral forum hosted by prime minister candidate for the Alliance of Free Democrats (SZDSZ) Gabor Kuncze and the top economic specialist of the Hungarian Socialist Party (MSZP), Laszlo Bekesi. The forum, held in Budapest, was intended as a preliminary to the May 29 run-off of the parliamentary elections. Bekesi and Kuncze said they see no obstacles to a governing coalition being formed between the two parties, and they both agreed that the new government should be led by a pragmatic and active prime minister. Bekesi said the new prime minister should be a diplomatic personality with a great deal of tolerance, who would be able to introduce even the bitter pills by making people understand the sweetness they will bring in the future. The two men also feel that the Hungarian economy will reach its deepest point of recession next year. Analysing the current state and prospects of the Hungarian economy, Bekesi said the next government would have a much more limited scope of action and resources for tackling much heavier tasks. "Despite the extremely strict measures the next government will have to take, Hungary's economic performance may decrease even next year," Bekesi said. Kuncze added that, due to the erroneous or belated decisions of the outgoing government, the new one would have to adopt a forced course on seeking solutions for the economic ills. "The Hungarian economy is in a worse situation than it was four years ago," he said. He stressed the need for creating a more cost-efficient state, and phasing out all useless offices and functions. Kuncze forecast a 5 percent drop in real incomes next year, and Bekesi expects a 4 to 5 percent decline.
