FBIS4-63279 "drsov098_b_94002" FBIS-SOV-94-098 Daily Report 19 May 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political Issues Regional Officials React to Shakhray Resignation Regional Officials React to Shakhray Resignation LD1905220994 Moscow Radiostantsiya Ekho Moskvy in Russian 1500 GMT 19 May 94 LD1905220994 Moscow Radiostantsiya Ekho Moskvy Russian BFN [Text] Boris Yeltsin did not accept Sergey Shakhray's resignation from the post of vice premier, Vyacheslav Kostikov, press secretary of the president, reported today. He also denied rumors that preparations for a major reshuffle are under way in the top echelons of power in Russia, in particular that Sergey Filatov is going to be dismissed from his post as head of the presidential administration. In the meantime, Sergey Filatov himself considers that the arrival of the new minister for nationalities will considerably speed up the settlement of the Russian-Chechen issue. State Duma Speaker Ivan Rybkin is convinced that this became possible largely thanks to Sergey Shakhray's successful work. [Begin Rybkin recording] Sergey Mikhaylovich Shakhray did a great deal to remove the little splits that have appeared between Russia and Chechnya. I think this should be said to his credit -- naturally, together with the president -- that the treaty on dividing powers between the center and Tatarstan as a region has been concluded. I think the fact that the Chechen Republic has joined the negotiating process also bears witness to the diplomatic activity and sophistication of Sergey Mikhaylovich Shakhray. It is hard for me to say how the new minister will tackle his job. I think questions relating to inter-ethnic relations are very subtle questions -- extremely so, I would say -- and this fine tissue of relations should be woven by the hands of professionals of the highest class. [end recording] Incidentally, Interfax has learned from well-informed sources that since Sergey Shakhray announced his resignation from the post of vice premier, several Russian regional leaders have appealed to the leadership of Russia not to accept his resignation. Among them are the presidents of Tatarstan and Bashkiria, and the head of the Karelian government. As for Chechnya, Presidential Press Secretary Vyacheslav Kostikov expressed an opinion that a personal meeting between Boris Yeltsin and Dzhokhar Dudayev may take place in the near future. He said Russian-Chechen relations are the most painful issue of all, but added that some progress is beginning to show in the matter.
