FBIS3-972 "drafr052_d_94011" FBIS-AFR-94-052 Document Type:Daily Report 16 Mar 1994 SOUTHERN AFRICA Zimbabwe Agriculture Minister Comments on Land Policy MB1603154694 Johannesburg SAPA in English 1401 GMT 16 Mar 94 MB1603154694 Johannesburg SAPA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Harare Mar 16 SAPA -- Zimbabwe's Agriculture Minister Kumbirai Kangai on Wednesday [16 March] insisted there was "nothing wrong" with government action in seizing white-owned farms and then leasing them to cabinet ministers, MPs and civil servants. Mr Kangai said it was part of government policy to "develop indigenous commercial farmers". The minister also confirmed reports that the first farm to be seized in terms of the controversial Land Acquisition Act was initially intended for 33 peasant farmers from an overcrowded neighbouring communal land but was instead leased to Minister of Education Witness Mangwende. The law allows the government to force white farmers to sell their land and denies them the right to sue for unfair compensation. Mr Mangwende was the agriculture minister two years ago who bulldozed the policy into law, leading President Robert Mugabe's "revolutionary" land policy to correct imbalances in land distribution. Some 4,000 white farmers own 11 million hectares of land. Mr Kangai who faced the press on the scandal for the first time on Wednesday, said the government's resettlement policy was "very clear" in securing land not only for peasants, but also for people who happened to be senior government officials. The government was in the process of "addressing the disparity of the position, and developing the indigenous commercial farmer", Mr Kangai said. "Mangwende happened to be an individual who had an application on our file," he said. "For that farm, for the people who applied, he was the most suitable. There is nothing wrong with that," he added. Mr Kangai insisted Mr Mangwende had met "the right criteria". When charged that a similar case in Britain would have resulted in the responsible cabinet minister being fired, Mr Kangai replied, "I am glad I am not in the UK".
