FBIS3-6989 "dreas056_a_94001" FBIS-EAS-94-056 Document Type:Daily Report 23 Mar 1994 NORTHEAST ASIA Japan Kantor Interviewed on Resuming Framework Talks OW2303055794 Tokyo NHK General Television Network in Japanese 0309 GMT 23 Mar 94 OW2303055794 Tokyo NHK General Television Network Language: Japanese Article Type:BFN [Interview with U.S. Trade Representative Mickey Kantor by unidentified NHK reporter at his office in Washington on 21 March; from "NHK News" Program; Kantor's comments are in English -- recorded] [Text] In an interview with an NHK reporter on 21 March, U.S. Trade Representative Mickey Kantor stressed that the resumption of Japan-U.S. framework talks would be possible depending on the package of measures the Japanese Government planned to map out in late March to open its markets. [Begin Kantor recording] We hope that it is aggressive and bold, in that there will be a good enough package to restart talks under the framework. What I want to talk about is Japan's having a bold package of market-opening items that will help us reengage this process. [end recording] In this way, Mr. Kantor stressed that the resumption of Japan-U.S. framework talks is possible depending on the package of measures the Japanese Government plans to map out in late March to open its markets. [Begin Kantor recording] I think it should not escape our attention that the Japanese market is the most closed market of any developed country in the world. [end recording] Mr. Kantor's remarks emphasized that the United States will continue to use sanctions as a weapon to press Japan to open its market. The U.S. Trade Representative plans to release an annual report on foreign trade barriers in late March which could be used as evidence in the decision to invoke the Super 301 provision of the 1988 Omnibus Trade Act against Japan's foreign trade barriers. Commenting on the release of the report, Mr. Kantor said the United States wants to speedily resolve procurement by the Japanese Government and the automobile sector. In the interview he suggested that the two sectors might be singled out in the report as examples of closed Japanese markets in the report.
