FBIS4-60034 "drnes098_c_94005" FBIS-NES-94-098 Daily Report 20 May 1994 Egypt `Unfriendly' Policy Lamented `Unfriendly' Policy Lamented NC2005104294 Cairo MENA in Arabic 0910 GMT 20 May 94 NC2005104294 Cairo MENA Arabic BFN [Text] Cairo, 20 May (MENA)--The Egyptian Foreign Ministry last night summoned the Sudanese charge d'affaires in Cairo and informed him of its strong protest at the unacceptable and unjustified practices that primarily target Egyptian individuals and families living in Sudan. The Foreign Ministry explained that these practices come on holy days, when Muslims everywhere celebrate the blessed 'Id al-Adha, when there is tranquility in Egyptian-Sudanese relations, and when Egypt has repeatedly stressed that it wants Sudan's territorial unity and its people's interests. The Sudanese diplomat was informed that Egypt will find itself compelled to adopt the necessary measures and stances on the bilateral and international levels to confront this policy. MENA has learned that the Foreign Ministry asked the Egyptian ambassador in Khartoum to lodge a similar protest and to explain the Egyptian stance on these practices in the same way the protest was conveyed to the Sudanese charge d'affaires in Cairo. Egyptian Foreign Ministry sources have stated that both the Egyptian and Sudanese people feel regret and sadness over the Sudanese Government's continuation of its unfriendly policy, which aims to sever all ties and bonds between the two peoples and to draw a gloomy end to a long history of constructive cooperation and fruitful effort that served to deepen and consolidate everlasting bilateral relations. The Egyptian sources stressed that despite the feelings of sorrow sparked by these unjustified Sudanese practices, the Egyptian Foreign Ministry emphasizes the following: 1. These measures will not affect the firm relations between the two fraternal Egyptian and Sudanese peoples because those who are carrying them out are a "minority"; they do not represent the Sudanese people and do not consider their traditions and real interests. 2. Egypt has always wanted to safeguard the interests of fraternal Sudan. It has expected the Sudanese Government to show the same level of responsibility. 3. Egypt hopes the Sudanese officials will reconsider their policy to safeguard their historic bilateral relations so that Egypt will not be compelled to adopt measures and a stance that so far, it has been eager not to take.
