FBIS3-44564 "drchi003_v_94001" FBIS-CHI-94-003 Document Type:Daily Report 5 Jan 1994 TAIWAN Premier Lien Chan on Southeast Asian Visit Meets Singapore Officials OW0401112194 Taipei CNA in English 0926 GMT 4 Jan 94 OW0401112194 Taipei CNA Language: English Article Type:BFN [By C.T. Liang and Lilian Wu] [Text] Singapore, Jan. 4 (CNA) -- Republic of China [ROC] Premier Lien Chan began his second full day of visit in Singapore Tuesday [4 January] by golfing with Singaporean Prime Minister Goh Chok Tong and other officials. Before the round of golf, Lien had breakfast with Goh, Trade and Commerce Minister Yeo Cheow Tong, and Environment Minister Mah Bon Tan, during which they discussed joint development projects on Mainland China's Hainan Province. Lien said that petroleum and minerals would be the main products worth developing on Hainan, and suggested that Taiwan and Singapore establish a company financed by Taiwan and manned by Singaporeans to process and export the products. Goh and other Singaporean officials expressed interest in the proposal, and Lien asked Hsiao Wan-chang, chairman of the Council for Economic Planning and Development, to keep in touch with the Singaporean side on the matter. Lien arrived in Singapore Sunday for a four-day visit following his private visit in Malaysia. Lien attended a dinner party hosted by President Ong Teng Cheong Monday night, and will attend one given by Senior Minister Li Kuan Yew Tuesday night. Also attending the dinner Monday were Deputy Minister Lee Hsieng Loong, Foreign [as received] Affairs Minister Jayakumar Shunmugam, Trade and Industry Minister Yeo Cheow Tong, Labor Minister Lim Boon Heng, Information and the Arts Minister Ker Sin Tze, and Singapore Trade Representative in Taipei Chai Chong Yi. During his stay in Singapore, Lien has met with nearly every cabinet official, and this will help boost substantial relations between the two countries, observers said. Lien's mission is comprised of Hsiao, Deputy Foreign Affairs Minister Fang Chin-yen, and Jason Hu, director-general of the Government Information Office. Hsiao said Lien admired the public works, purchasing system, rapid transit network and financial services sector in Singapore, and was impressed by Malaysia's rapid economic development. Lien's mission will return to Taipei Wednesday.
