FBIS4-49328 "drchi087_w_94002" FBIS-CHI-94-087 Daily Report 3 May 1994 HONG KONG & MACAO Hong Kong XINHUA Director on Meeting Goals XINHUA Director on Meeting Goals HK0405040894 Beijing XINHUA Hong Kong Service in Chinese 1321 GMT 3 May 94 HK0405040894 Beijing XINHUA Hong Kong Service Chinese BFN [Text] Hong Kong, 3 May (XINHUA)--That the political and economic ad hoc groups of the Preliminary Work Committee [PWC] of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region [SAR] Preparatory Committee have met for the first time in Hong Kong has become a topic of common concern among the Hong Kong people. The XINHUA News Agency Hong Kong branch invited approximately 500 public figures to attend a function tonight to extend a warm welcome to the PWC Vice Chairman Lu Ping and other mainland China PWC members who have made a special trip to Hong Kong to attend the ad hoc group meetings. Zhou Nan, director of XINHUA's Hong Kong branch, addressed the reception, which was held on the 50th floor of the China Resources Building. He said that these ad hoc meetings have important significance. PWC members will take this opportunity to meet public figures from all walks of life in the Hong Kong community as well as the local people and will discuss with them matters of vital importance concerning Hong Kong's steady transition, stability, and prosperity. Zhou Nan stressed that the meetings seek to improve communication with all sectors of the Hong Kong community, to meet with grass-roots representatives from all social strata and geographic areas, and to widely solicit opinions on issues related to the preparations for the establishment of the Hong Kong SAR. Zhou Nan said: In order to preserve long-term stability and prosperity in Hong Kong, one must closely rely on the vast number of Hong Kong people who love this country and Hong Kong, as well as on other members of the local public. One must do a solid job in preparing for the establishment of the Hong Kong SAR in all areas. To this end, he and all other PWC members alike sincerely and eagerly hope that Hong Kong people from all walks of life will show concern for and play a part in this task and will contribute and pool together their wisdom, talents, and efforts, thus making new contributions to achieving a smooth transition and to preserving Hong Kong's long-term stability and prosperity. Henry Fok, vice chairman of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference National Committee, was present at today's reception.
