FBIS3-690 "drafr048_d_94003" FBIS-AFR-94-048 Document Type:Daily Report 11 Mar 1994 SOUTHERN AFRICA Angola Opposition Official on Moving Talks to U.S. MB1003145894 London BBC World Service in Portuguese 2030 GMT 9 Mar 94 MB1003145894 London BBC World Service Language: Portuguese Article Type:BFN [From the "London Last Minute" program] [Text] Alberto Antonio Neto, president of the Angolan Democratic Party, has sent a letter to U.S. State Secretary Warren Christopher proposing the transfer of the Lusaka peace talks to Washington, the U.S. capital. This afternoon, we asked Alberto Neto if a greater U.S. intervention would change things. [Begin recording] [Neto] This will change things, because the two warring parties cannot even produce a pin. They do not produce rounds of ammunition to be able to continue with the war without foreign assistance. The United States has the means to dictate to the parties a series of solutions to end the conflict. I think the U.S. Government, which maintains equidistant political relations with the two parties, now understands that presently the only solution is not to continue with the war, but to tell the two warring parties that enough is enough [preceding three words in English] and you have to carry out the following conditions: First, you should respect human rights in Angola. Second, you should end the conflict and apply a peace plan, which could be the outcome of different peace plans which presently exist. [Unidentified correspondent] Alberto Neto, what exactly did you ask the United States to do in your letter to Warren Christopher? [Neto] First, after the assessment [preceding word in English], it is carrying out in political, military, economic, and humanitarian fields, the United States should very clearly tell the two warring parties that there is no need to continue with this war and that it is even necessary to transfer the ongoing Lusaka peace talks to Washington. Second, there is a need for the presence of the unarmed parties at the negotiating table. Third, there is a need to send a firm ultimatum to Jose Eduardo dos Santos and Jonas Malheiro Savimbi to go to Washington to sign the agreements which they say are almost concluded. [end recording]
