FBIS3-59605 "jpest003___94009" JPRS-EST-94-003 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Europe/International 26 January 1994 WEST EUROPE COMPUTERS Bull Develops Malfunction Analysis Software 94WS0108A Paris L'USINE NOUVELLE in French 16 Sep 93 p 59 94WS0108A Paris L'USINE NOUVELLE Language: French Article Type:CSO [Article by Thierry Lucas: "A Technological Bound in Malfunction Analysis"; L'USINE NOUVELLE introduction is "A new, more powerful program to better pinpoint the combined causes of breakdowns"] [Text] What do an automobile, an airplane, a chemical factory, and a satellite have in common? The answer: All of them are complex, multicomponent systems whose reliability engineers must be able to gauge from the moment of their design. To carry out these calculations, manufacturers have been using "malfunction tree" analysis software for many years. Now, a wholly new technique developed by Bull researchers makes it possible to boost the complexity of systems analyzed in this way by a factor of 100 or 1,000! The new technology has been incorporated into Metaprime, a malfunction-tree-analysis software program marketed by Simulog. Metaprime is offered on Unix stations, in conjunction with the program Open Modline, which supplies the graphics tools for modeling and interpreting the results. The method's basic analytical principle has not changed: Starting with their knowledge of the system's architecture (a car is composed of an engine, a gearbox, steering, etc.), engineers systematically deduce all the combinations of causes that could trigger a breakdown. The major undesirable event (plane crash, environmental accident in a chemical plant, and so on) can be broken down in this way into basic events such as the failure of an electrical circuit, the malfunctioning of a valve, etc. The various elements are represented in a tree graph that shows the link between each malfunction and its causes and consequences. "Qualitative analysis of the malfunction tree can already identify the combination of causes that suffice to create a failure," explains Duc Duong, Simulog's technical director. "But to go farther, engineers must assign a probability value to each basic event and calculate the system's resultant overall reliability. Metaprime is especially good at this quantitative analysis of malfunction trees." Indeed, once a tree has grown to several hundred "branches", the systematic calculation of probabilities quickly eats up prohibitive amounts of computer processing time. What makes Bull's method, which employs a complete set of new algorithms, superior is its ability to manipulate data in a comprehensive way, without causing an explosion in combinations. As a result, engineers will be able to rigorously analyze the reliability of the most complex systems, without resorting to always-tricky approximations.
