FBIS4-18521 "drweu066_n_94006" FBIS-WEU-94-066 Daily Report 17 Mar 1994 NORDIC COUNTRIES Sweden Troops Divided on Moving to Bosnia Troops Divided on Moving to Bosnia 94EN0289A Stockholm SVENSKA DAGBLADET in Swedish 17 Mar 94 p 10 94EN0289A Stockholm SVENSKA DAGBLADET Swedish CSO [Article by Anders Hellberg: "Swedish UN Men Do Not Want To Go to Bosnia"] [Text] "Clearly, it is calmer than we thought here in Bosnia. The mass media have given a wrong picture of the situation," says Major Mats Backteman, commanding officer of the Swedish company that the politicians want to move from Macedonia to Bosnia. Backteman has been with the Nordic battalion in Tuzla for two days, in order to find out, along with two colleagues, what the situation is like in Bosnia. "We have gotten a positive idea of what we are to do here, mainly guard the airport," Backteman says. But "at home" in Macedonia the Swedish company of 200 men is not as positive as the four who have visited Tuzla. "They are still negative, but then they have not heard about the experiences we have had." Mats Backteman himself would absolutely agree to move to Bosnia. "I have discussed it with my wife in Linkoping, where we also have two small children. I would accept a rewriting of the contract." Accept Backteman is not really able to say how many in the company would accept moving. "I think that right now it is 50-50 in favor of moving to Bosnia." The alternative for the Swedish unit is not to remain in Macedonia but to break its UN contract and go home. "As I see it, there is no possibility for us to remain in Macedonia if we do not want to move to Bosnia," Backteman says. For most the alternative is going home to unemployment. The company has only been in Kumanovo in Macedonia for one month. Five months remain of the contract. "For many of the guys their period of sickness benefits has expired and they regard the UN service as a job. ``At the same time we have not had the opportunity of checking with our families. In that way we have dual loyalties; it is a difficult situation.'' Persuade As Mats Backteman describes the situation in Tuzla, "it is not much more dangerous than in Macedonia." Colonel Ulf Henricsson, commander of the Nordic battalion in Tuzla, has tried to persuade the Swedish company in Macedonia to move. As Henricsson describes the contracts, they are written with the UN and do not refer specifically to Macedonia. But Backteman points out that it says "MA 03" -- which is the Macedonian battalion -- in their contracts.
