FBIS4-48394 "drafr096_d_94006" FBIS-AFR-94-096 Daily Report 17 May 1994 SOUTHERN AFRICA Angola Ministerial Council Approves Economic Programs Ministerial Council Approves Economic Programs MB1805090294 Luanda TPA Television Network in Portuguese 1930 GMT 17 May 94 MB1805090294 Luanda TPA Television Network Portuguese BFN [Text] The Council of Ministers met today to examine economic issues, within the framework of the economic and social program. The meeting, chaired by President of the Republic Jose Eduardo dos Santos, approved all examined documents on economic issues. The documents, which were approved with amendments, include the revision of economic legislation, which is viewed as a priority in the readjustment of the government's economic program. The Council of Ministers also examined the law on foreign investment, which aims at creating incentives to attract foreign capital. It also examined the privatization law and the public investment program. What does the government intend to achieve with all these documents, which are to be submitted to the National Assembly? Sabino Ferraz, Council of Ministers deputy secretary explains: [Begin recording] [Ferraz] The government intends to achieve different objectives depending on the law in question. For example, the law on public and private sectors is aimed at broadening participation of the private sector in the national economic activity. The law on foreign investment is aimed at improving the foreign investment code to attract foreign capital to Angola. The law on privatization is aimed at increasing private investment in national economic activity. It is also aimed at increasing the participation of private agents in economic activity, thus reducing state participation. It is therefore important to note that all legal privatization carried out so far will be respected. [Unidentified reporter] Are these incentives valid during this period of war or after the war? [Ferraz] Well, we have to think about the present moment, the present situation of war we are experiencing. After the war, we can think about other kinds of incentives. The draft law takes this into account. [end recording]
