FBIS4-36149 "drnes109_v_94006" FBIS-NES-94-109 Daily Report 6 Jun 1994 Pakistan Officials Claim Economy Showing `Signs of Recovery' Officials Claim Economy Showing `Signs of Recovery' BK0606150794 Islamabad PTV Television Network in English 1400 GMT 6 Jun 94 BK0606150794 Islamabad PTV Television Network English BFN [Text] The national economy has started showing signs of recovery because of the effective economic management by the present government. This was stated by the federal minister for information and broadcasting, Mr. Khalid Ahmad Khan Kharal, and the information secretary of Pakistan People's Party, Mr. Salman Taseer, in a joint news conference in Islamabad today. They said that the size of the stock exchange has been doubled during the last eight months by the infusion of $700 million by foreign investors, which shows the confidence of the international community in the macroeconomic stability of the country. Mr. Khalid Ahmad Khan Kharal said the government has taken various measures to augment resources and reduce its expenditure considerably. He said the expenditure was curtailed by dropping uneconomical schemes, reducing size of the federal government expenditure, freezing of supplementary grants, and imposing discipline on provincial finances. He said revenues have registered an increase by 16.6 percent during July-March 1993-94 over the corresponding period last year by plugging loopholes, launching successful recovery campaigns, and improving administrative capacity of the CDR's [expansion unknown]. He said the deficit financing has also been reduced to rupees 10.34 billion against rupees 61.87 billion during the corresponding period last year. He said these measures have activated the economy and the positive results are visible in the key sectors and segment of the economy like GDP growth rate, balance of payments, and prices of essential commodities. The minister said in a short period the government has succeeded in bringing about macroeconomic stability in the financial and fiscal sectors and has also arrested declining trends in the domestic production. The government has also initiated programs of far-reaching improvements in the areas of energy, physical infrastructure, and social services so that the structural gap which has persisted for long in these sectors could be plugged.
