FBIS3-26101 "drchi023_k_94011" FBIS-CHI-94-023 Document Type:Daily Report 3 Feb 1994 NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political & Social Article Notes Senior Statesmen's Remarks on Reform HK0202083694 Hong Kong LIEN HO PAO in Chinese 2 Feb 94 p 10 HK0202083694 Hong Kong LIEN HO PAO Language: Chinese Article Type:BFN ["Special article" by staff reporter: "Yang Shangkun's and Tian Jiyun's Remarks on Reform Are Worth Pondering"] [Text] Recently, senior statesman Yang Shangkun and Tian Jiyun, vice chairman of the National People's Congress, separately visited Guangdong. Their statements, which differ from normal ones, are worth pondering. A Guangdong official disclosed that Yang Shangkun met with provincial officials while in Guangdong. He listened to an account given by these officials. Yang, who has kept a relatively low profile since the 14th CPC Congress, talked volubly. He expressed support for Guangdong's reform, saying that the province had a correct guiding ideology, which was worth recommending. He particularly asked the special economic regions to consolidate their achievements. It is said that Yang Shangkun spoke highly of Guangdong's proposal in the new round of reform of reestablishing the province's superiority, particularly the superiority of Shenzhen and Zhuhai, which included the tentative ideas of establishing the Nanhua financial center and setting up a free trade zone. When the question of Shanghai's Pudong was mentioned, however, Yang Shangkun remained silent. During his visit to Shenzhen the other day, Tian Jiyun stressed "reform, opening up, delegation of powers, and flexibility," saying that herein lies the crux of mainland's economic development. Tian Jiyun spoke highly of the recent reforms. He said that a market economic mechanism will be gradually introduced to replace the forsaken planned economic model, which was disadvantageous to development of productive forces. Guangdong officials say that the remarks of Yang Shangkun and Tian Jiyun meant more than what they say and are worth pondering. It shows that there are differences within the CPC on a number of issues. Reportedly, there are also serious differences within the State Council. Besides external affairs and the Three Gorges project, Premier Li Peng will not bother about other businesses. Zhu Rongji and Zou Jiahua argued contentiously as they shared different views on the capital for key construction projects. Qian Qichen and Li Lanqing also attended to their own business.
