FBIS3-16411 "drsov051_d_94008" FBIS-SOV-94-051 Document Type:Daily Report 15 Mar 1994 Regional Affairs Shumeyko Visits Baltiysk, Sails on Destroyer PM1603094594 Moscow KRASNAYA ZVEZDA in Russian 15 Mar 94 p 3 PM1603094594 Moscow KRASNAYA ZVEZDA Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Report by Petr Karapetyan under "Postscriptum: Events and Commentaries" rubric: "Vladimir Shumeyko's `Military Day' in Kaliningrad. Patronage Is a Good Thing, But It Is More Useful To `Be Friends' With the Army Every Day"] [Text] The "military program" of the two-day working tour of Kaliningrad Oblast by Vladimir Shumeyko, chairman of the Federation Council of the Russian Federal Assembly, was packed: On the morning of 10 March he put to sea for four hours on board the destroyer Nastoychivyy, and after dinner tactical exercises at the marines' training center lasted until late in the evening. At a rally marking the Nastoychivyy's return to Baltiysk, Vladimir Shumeyko voiced satisfaction with the seamen's training and announced that the Federation Council is assuming patronage of the destroyer. According to the seamen, before Shumeyko, none of the politicians of his rank who had visited Kaliningrad Oblast had devoted so much time to the social problems of servicemen. These problems are quite acute: The oblast accounts for 11 percent of the total number of Russian Army servicemen without apartments, and approximately 8,000 Baltic Fleet officers and warrant officers are without housing. The local administration is repaying its housing debts to servicemen only slowly and unwillingly: Last year the Kaliningrad authorities "gave up" only...one apartment. At the same time the oblast's construction capacities are not great, and all hope is pinned on the Lithuanian firm of "Selma." Vladas Laurinavicius, its leader, is well known in Kaliningrad. Under a contract he has pledged to erect the "Severnyy-2" residential district over the next two years. This means precisely 4,300 apartments. To all appearances, the Lithuanians will complete construction ahead of schedule but will not, alas, remove the acuteness of the problem. Of course, patronage of a destroyer, cruiser, or regiment is a good thing, but the way out undoubtedly consists in a clear-cut, comprehensively considered social program for servicemen in Kaliningrad Oblast. The need for this can also be felt, however, in other parts of Russia.
