FBIS3-61398 "jpusr007___94056" FBIS-USR-94-007 Document Type:JPRS Document Title: FBIS Report: Central Eurasia 31 January 1994 BALTIC STATES LITHUANIA Defense Council Weighs Military Doctrine, Defense Reorganization 944K0553A Vilnius LIETUVOS RYTAS in Lithuanian 21 Dec 93 p 2 944K0553A Vilnius LIETUVOS RYTAS Language: Lithuanian Article Type:CSO [Article by Ramune Sakalauskaite: "Defense Council Meeting Participants Deliberated Defense Doctrine and the Future of National Defense"] [Text] A one-and-a-half hour meeting of the Defense Council took place yesterday in the office of President Algirdas Brazauskas. Participants of the meeting in addition to Brazauskas were Prime Minister Adolfas Slezevicius; Seimas Chairman Ceslovas Jursenas; Jurgis Jurgelis, general director of the Security Service; Defense Minister Linas Linkevicius; Foreign Minister Povilas Gylys; Jonas Andriskevicius, chief of the armed forces; Gintaras Tamulaitis, deputy to the armed forces chief of staff; Vytautas Petkevicius, chairman of the Seimas national security committee; Algimantas Norvilas, the president's advisor on national security affairs. Two topics were deliberated at the meeting: Petkevicius presented the defense doctrine, and Linkevicius presented a plan for the reorganization of the structure of the national defense system. Following the meeting, Andriskevicius, chief of the armed forces, indicated that a decision had been made to present to the Seimas the defense doctrine deliberated at the meeting. In his opinion, there had been no fundamental disagreements during the discussions, and there was ready agreement regarding difficult technical issues. With respect to a reorganization of the structure of the national defense system, a decision was made to separate the functions of the armed forces and the ministry. Asked whether there had already been a division of the functions, Andriskevicius replied, "The commission is working and the president expressed the hope that this issue be resolved as quickly as possible. So this is what we will do." Andriskevicius indicated that those at the meeting were happy that good bilateral relations were continuing between Russia and Lithuania in the wake of the meeting between the countries' prime ministers. It is thought that certain technical military issues will receive a certain amount of accelerated attention. Assessing the Defense Council meeting, Foreign Minister Gylys said that there had been discussion of how to establish public control of funds earmarked for national defense. This, he asserted, is one of the requirements for integration into international security systems. To the knowledge of Norvilas, the president's advisor on national security affairs, the reorganization in the national defense system has already begun. The group working on the reorganization of the defense ministry has been entrusted with selection of one of four available draft proposals, and, following deliberation of it, with submitting it to the Defense Council.
