FBIS4-15932 "drsov071_b_94014" FBIS-SOV-94-071 Daily Report 12 Apr 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Military, Space & Nuclear Issues Chernomyrdin Speech on Cosmonautics Day Chernomyrdin Speech on Cosmonautics Day LD1204202994 Moscow Russian Television Network in Russian 1851 GMT 12 Apr 94 LD1204202994 Moscow Russian Television Network Russian BFN [Address by Prime Minister Viktor Chernomyrdin to audience at concert in the Kremlin Palace in Moscow on Cosmonautics Day -- live or recorded] [Excerpts] Dear participants in the celebrations, dear veterans, scientists, cosmonauts, engineers, designers, people who have taken part and are taking part today in the creation of unique systems, I must first of all pass to you -- all of you who work in this sphere -- warm greetings and congratulations from the President of Russia Boris Nikolayevich Yeltsin. [passage omitted] Things are difficult today, yes. More difficult than ever. But I can tell you one thing -- despite all the difficulties this government will not be the last government, the one under which people will cease talking about cosmonautics. We will do all we can. I would not like to be the last premier, the one who stopped progress in the sphere of cosmonautics. Today this really is one of the very few branches of Russia's national economy which is continuing to bring glory to and do great things for our country confidently, calmly, and with certainty. I think that the program which Russia has before it today -- the program before our fatherland and cosmonautics -- will always continue, today and tomorrow and in all the years to come. The things which we are doing today, the fact that we are creating unique systems jointly with other states, including the United States of America and with the countries of Europe, this once again uniquely testifies to the fact that Russia, the scientists of Russia, the techniques, and the techology created in Russia exists and will exist for centuries to come. [passage omitted] Once again, dear friends, I wish you success, health and patience on our national festival. Thank you. [applause]
