FBIS4-50682 "drchi098_k_94004" FBIS-CHI-94-098 Daily Report 23 Apr 1994 NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political & Social Central Institutions To Live `Thrifty Life' Central Institutions To Live `Thrifty Life' HK1905151494 Beijing RENMIN RIBAO in Chinese 23 Apr 94 p 4 HK1905151494 Beijing RENMIN RIBAO Chinese BFN [By Li Jianxing (2621 1696 5281): "Institutions Directly Under the CPC Central Committee Decide To Live a Thrifty Life"] [Text] Beijing, 22 Apr--A meeting on budgetary arrangements in 1994 for institutions directly under the CPC Central Committee opened here today. The meeting asked these institutions to be careful and economical in their expenditure, to exercise strict management, to live within their means, and to take the lead in practicing frugality so as to satisfactorily fulfill this year's budgetary tasks. Chen Fujin, deputy director of the CPC Central Committee Office, attended and addressed the meeting. Chen Fujin stressed: The country's financial situation this year should be correctly understood. Institutions directly under the CPC Central Committee should take the overall situation into account, deal with the country's financial difficulties, adjust their expenditure structure, scientifically and rationally arrange their spending, and make contributions to the smooth fulfillment of the state budget. Institutions directly under the CPC Central Committee should develop their fine traditions of hard struggle, diligence, and thrift, and take the lead in responding to the call of the CPC Central Committee and the State Council. Proceeding from the overall need to ensure the central task of economic construction, strengthen the formation of a clean administration, and maintain close ties between the party and the people, they should improve their budgetary management and do a good job in financial management. Xu Lieyuan, deputy director of the Management Bureau of Institutions Directly Under the CPC Central Committee, analyzed the results of budgetary implementation in these institutions over the last few years, explained the basic situation and distribution principle of budgetary assessments in administrative institutions and undertakings for Fiscal Year 1994, and set detailed measures for this year's budgetary arrangements. Jiang Yikang, director of the management bureau, chaired the meeting. A comrade in charge of the relevant department under the Ministry of Finance attended the meeting to brief the participants on this year's state budget.
