FBIS4-14410 "drsov062_a_94013" FBIS-SOV-94-062 Daily Report 31 Mar 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Notes U.S. Role in Reaching Accord Notes U.S. Role in Reaching Accord MK3103083094 Moscow SEGODNYA in Russian 31 Mar 94 p 1 MK3103083094 Moscow SEGODNYA Russian BFN [Yelena Shchedrunova report under the "Balkans" rubric: "A New Russian Success in the Former Yugoslavia. Cease-fire Agreement Signed Between Croatia and Serbian Krajina"] [Excerpts] [Passage omitted] Vitaliy Churkin, Russia's special representative in the talks on the former Yugoslavia, who returned to Moscow on the evening of 30 March, has told your SEGODNYA correspondent that the document signed gives all reasons to state that the threat of a military conflict between the Serbs and the Croats has been brought to nil. [passage omitted] The next step in the efforts to settle the conflict between Croatia and Serbian Krajina will be talks on the resumption of economic ties and communications between regions that are scheduled to be held in two weeks or so, probably at the same location. Discussion of the most crucial matter -- Serbian Krajina's status -- was postponed indefinitely. Vitaliy Churkin believes that the process of decisionmaking on the subject should not be rushed; he pointed out, however, that both Russia and the West adhere to the principle of Croatia's territorial integrity. But he is "certain that solutions are possible that would not be detrimental to either side." [passage omitted] Vitaliy Churkin emphasized that the United States, the EC, and the participants in the international conference have had a significant role to play in achieving this result. Although the meeting was sponsored and organized by Russia, which later invited other participants to join it, only the thorough coordination in the actions of all mediators made it possible to make sure that the agreement was signed. Vitaliy Churkin pointed out in particular that U.S. and Russian diplomats, who had previously made repeated statements about the coincidence of their views on the Balkan conflict, demonstrated this coincidence in practice for the first time. The experience of the Zagreb talks, he stressed, may also be used for Bosnia and Herzegovina.
