FBIS4-13314 "drnes076yy_94007" FBIS-NES-94-076 Daily Report 20 Apr 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Arab-Israeli Talks Water Negotiations Continue in Muscat Water Negotiations Continue in Muscat Israeli Delegate Says All Aims Met TA2004063094 Jerusalem Qol Yisra'el in Hebrew 0405 GMT 20 Apr 94 TA2004063094 Jerusalem Qol Yisra'el Hebrew BFN [Interview with Avraham Katz-'Oz, head of the Israeli delegation to the Omani Water Affairs Committee, by Arye Gus, in Muscat on 19 April -- recorded] [Text] [Katz-'Oz] From Israel's viewpoint it was a very successful meeting. We achieved all the aims we set for ourselves. If the next meeting takes place in Bahrain or Kuwait, as expected, another of the five or six main targets we came here with will be met. The Americans also achieved all their aims. I believe we have moved from the stage of general deliberations by experts to that of starting to implement projects in the field. In his concluding remarks, the chairman referred to five projects on which work will now begin. One is an American project dealing with waste waters from small settlements through chemical treatment, and then the reuse of the water. That will be a joint project by two groups -- the environment group and the water group. [Gus] That was, of course, the start of cooperation with Oman. [Katz-'Oz] Not only that, it also found expression in the chairman's closing remarks. In other words, it is on record that Israel is a member of the steering committee, which will be based in Oman, and that Israel will contribute to desalination projects using solar energy within the framework of the Omani center, which will have a branch in Israel. [Gus] What is next? [Katz-'Oz] We should look at it as part of Israel's overall interest in the water group. Together with all the other international elements, we are slowly moving toward an overall solution of the Middle East's water problems, for the Palestinians, Jordanians, and Israelis, outside the existing water distribution framework, through the creation of additional water for the future. [Gus] Israel did not oppose the establishment of a Palestinian national water authority. What caused the reversal in the Israeli position? [Katz-'Oz] The Declaration of Principles includes a number of authorities to be set up, including land, water, and military authorities. As part of that framework, we, of course, did not oppose the establishment of the water authority. The bilateral working group will deal with the details of how and when it will be set up.
