FBIS4-8337 "dreeu071__a94026" FBIS-EEU-94-071-A Daily Report 11 Apr 1994 ANNEX Romania Colombian Minister Meets With Iliescu, Vacaroiu Colombian Minister Meets With Iliescu, Vacaroiu AU1204074094 Bucharest ROMPRES in English 1634 GMT 11 Apr 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY AU1204074094 Bucharest ROMPRES English BFN [Text] Bucharest ROMPRES, 11/4/1994 -- Romanian President Ion Iliescu received Monday, April 11, Colombian Foreign Minister Noemi Sanin Posada. The stage of Romanian-Colombian ties was examined, the way in which projects were fulfilled agreed on in the summer of 1993, when Romania's president paid a visit to Colombia. The interview occasioned talks on bilateral projects of interest and an exchange of opinions on the situation in Romania's area. Colombia is interested to enter the East-European economic market. President Ion Iliescu spoke to the Colombian guest about the economic prospects of his country for the period to come. The agreements of scientific and cultural cooperation between Romania and Colombia are to be followed by commercial, interbanking and air transport accords, that are going to complete the legal framework necessary for the development of bilateral links, Romanian Premier Nicolae Vacaroiu and Colombian Foreign Minister Noemi Sanin Posada showed in their Monday, April 11 interview. The prime minister proposed, in the presence of Romania's Foreign Minister Teodor Melescanu, that a Chamber of Commerce be set up in the month of May, when the Colombian minister of trade is scheduled to visit Bucharest, with a view to turn to good account projects that have already been sketched, such as the production in Romania of sugar and juices. Mrs. Sanin specified that her people was viewing Romania as its closest friend in this geographic area. She opined that Romania could become one of the main distributors of Colombian products in Europe, that a swap of experience and cooperation between the two sides could be beneficial for both of them. Premier Vacaroiu was pleased to accept the invitation to make a visit to Colombia, extended by Foreign Minister Sanin. The minister of foreign relations of the Republic of Colombia, Noemi Sanin Posada ended Monday, 11 April, her official visit to Romania. On leaving, Mrs. Posada told the press that her visit had excellent results, and that her talks with the Romanian officials were extremely productive. The Romanian-Colombian cooperation must be boosted mostly in what economic ties are concerned, the chief of the Colombian diplomacy said, and said her country's minister of foreign trade was to visit Romania soon. "We want to import from Romania as many cars and steel products as possible, and hope that companies in our countries go into closer relations," she said.
