FBIS3-6258 "dreas050_a_94002" FBIS-EAS-94-050 Document Type:Daily Report 15 Mar 1994 NORTHEAST ASIA Japan U.S. Demand for Overcharges Repayment Viewed OW1503053694 Tokyo NHK General Television Network in Japanese 0306 GMT 15 Mar 94 OW1503053694 Tokyo NHK General Television Network Language: Japanese Article Type:BFN [Announcer-read report; from "NHK News" program] [Text] It has been revealed that concerning construction projects at the U.S. Forces Japan [USFJ] Atsugi base, the U.S. Government has notified the Japanese Government of its intention to demand that 73 Japanese construction companies pay a total of 1.1 billion yen in compensation for its having been forced to pay unreasonably high construction costs as a result of bid rigging among major Japanese construction companies. According to the message, the U.S. Government has been unjustly forced to pay unusually high costs for the construction of facilities at the USFJ Atsugi base in Kanagawa Prefecture between 1984 and 1990 because major Japanese construction companies engaged in bid rigging. It is reported that the U.S. Government therefore intends to demand about 1.1 billion yen in compensation from 73 construction companies which were involved in the construction projects. In this regard, Construction Minister Kozo Igarashi said at a news conference following a cabinet meeting this morning that although it is the job of the Fair Trade Commission to determine whether there was bid rigging, the Construction Ministry, for its part, will immediately investigate the matter. Igarashi, however, brushed aside concerns that this situation might refuel bilateral construction frictions, saying that it would not affect future bilateral ties because Japan presented the United States with measures last January to improve foreign access to Japanese construction markets, including the revision of bidding procedures, and that the two nations managed to reach an accord. Meanwhile, the Foreign Ministry feels the United States is not linking the bid rigging issue to the ongoing bilateral economic disputes because this matter is strictly a civil issue.
