FBIS4-33315 "drlat108_i_94003" FBIS-LAT-94-108 Daily Report 3 Jun 1994 Nicaragua Further on Lacayo Remarks Further on Lacayo Remarks PA0506135394 Managua Sistema Nacional de Television Network in Spanish 0200 GMT 3 Jun 94 PA0506135394 Managua Sistema Nacional de Television Network in Spanish 0200 GMT 3 Jun 94 Spanish BFN [By Mario Lourdes Osorio from the "National Newscast"] [Excerpt] [passage omitted] Presidency Minister Antonio Lacayo described the visit of U.S. Congressmen to Nicaragua as positive. He said they will have the opportunity to verify the government's challenge. [Begin Lacayo recording] They will be able to see, that unlike last year, the National Assembly is working normally with all its deputies; there is a Comptroller General who was democratically appointed; there is also a draft military bill agreed upon by the government and the Army, which is in fact already in the hands of the National Assembly; there is a rich and fruitful discussion process on possible constitutional reforms; and we are moving ahead to solve what we call the property conflict -- property that is both owned by U.S. as well as Nicaraguan citizens. We are also expediting the process to resolve the property issue through the issuance and legalization of deeds to land beneficiaries. We have already handed out land deeds covering more that 160,000 manzanas since September 1992 when we began the program. We will end this year with more than 300,000 total manzanas accumulated. There is also a compensation process, through the issuance of bonds, for those whose properties were unfairly confiscated in the last decade. With the privatization of TELCOR [Nicaraguan Telecommunications and Postal Services Institute], these bonds will have substantial backing and bond holders can have confidence in them and accept them easily, thus allowing land to be legalized for beneficiaries. [end recording] Regarding property legalization for U.S. citizens and the effects of the Torricelli law, Lacayo said: [Begin Lacayo recording] What counts is the person's nationality at the time of the confiscation. There may be Nicaraguans who had acquired U.S. citizenship and were affected afterward; for us and according to international law, they are U.S. citizens, whatever their name might be. However, if a person's property was confiscated by the Sandinist government while they were Nicaraguan citizens and five, six, or eight years later they became U.S. citizens, we will simply treat them as Nicaraguan citizens. [end recording]
