FBIS4-63459 "drsov099_e_94006" FBIS-SOV-94-099 Daily Report 21 May 1994 UKRAINE International Affairs Unidentified Gunmen Reportedly Attack Air Defense Site Unidentified Gunmen Reportedly Attack Air Defense Site LD2105152494 Moscow INTERFAX in English 1442 GMT 21 May 94 LD2105152494 Moscow INTERFAX English BFN [Text] The Ukrainian Defence Ministry issued a statement Friday [20 May] night saying that "a group of unidentified gunmen had tried to seize a strategic facility of the Ukrainian Anti-Aircraft Defence Force in Sevastopol." It notes that "properly organized defence of the facility and resolute actions by Ukrainian servicemen became obstacles to criminals." A well-informed source in the Ukrainian Defence Ministry has reported to Interfax that ten gunmen attempted to capture the Ukrainian Anti-aircraft Defence Command Post in Sevastopol on 19 May. The Ukrainian guards on duty at the facility frustrated their attempt. The statement stresses that the Crimean parliament's decision on army service for Crimeans exclusively in the peninsula "makes the Ukrainian side weary." "Not only does the document is at variance with Ukraine's constitution and defence potential requirements but it builds up tension in society and in the Army," the statement says. It underlines that the "Ukrainian Army units deployed in the Crimea are subordinate to Ukraine's Defence Ministry and carry out orders from the Ukrainian Supreme Army Commander in the interests of ensuring the territorial integrity of our state, its defence potential and inviolable frontiers." Speaking in parliament in Simferopol Saturday morning, the Crimean Security Service Chairman Vladimir Lepekhov denied that the Ukrainian anti-aircraft command post had come under attack Tuesday night. Meanwhile, as Interfax has found out from a source close to Crimean parliament, Ukrainian guards and special troops are being massed in the peninsula. Some 250 national guards arrived in Sevastopol Friday night and have set up a camp on the grounds of the Ukrainian naval academy in the city. Up to 400 more Ukrainian guards are expected in Sevastopol shortly.
