FBIS3-24080 "jpusr025___94034" FBIS-USR-94-025 Document Type:JPRS Document Title: FBIS Report: Central Eurasia 16 March 1994 RUSSIA REGIONAL AFFAIRS News From St Petersburg Bloc Nominates Vice Mayor 944F0417F St. Petersburg NEVSKOYE VREMYA in Russian 12 Feb 94 p 1 944F0417F St. Petersburg NEVSKOYE VREMYA Language: Russian Article Type:CSO [Report by V.P.: "`Center' Holds Strong Promise"] [Text] Deputy Mayor of St. Petersburg Vyacheslav Shcherbakov and the city soviet's former deputy vice chairman, Boris Moiseyev, have been nominated by The City We Love coalition. Moiseyev is convinced that, having received new mandates, candidates of The City We Love coalition will not let the administration rest in peace and will actively defend the interests of city residents. At the same time, emphasized Boris Aleksandrovich, we are not talking about confrontation with the executive branch: The previous legislative body had normal working relations with the mayoralty's committees, and this cooperation should be continued. Commenting on Sobchak's decision, which bars him as deputy mayor from running for the Assembly, Vyacheslav Shcherbakov said that he will leave his job if he becomes a deputy. Yuriy Boldyrev has already endorsed The City We Love coalition. Also announced at the press conference was a statement signed by Oleg Bogomolov, Stanislav Govorukhin, and Sergey Bogomolov, who also support the bloc's program planks. Members of the Our City Is Our Home coalition also call themselves centrists. In addition to the Liberal Club, the founders of this bloc include the For Justice movement, the Socialist Workers Party, and the Civic Democratic Movement. Among other organizations that have joined this bloc are two charity foundations, the Association of Families With Many Children, the Center for Medical-Economic Research, the Jurists for Ecology legal center, the computer programmers trade union, and other organizations. In the opinion of the coalition's organizers, reforms cannot be conducted by "fire and sword," without taking into account the vital interests of the majority of citizens--otherwise the result will be a vote for Zhirinovskiy's party. In the event they are elected to the City Assembly, bloc candidates, in particular, intend to concentrate on issues of bringing the city and the oblast closer together. In the opinion of Sergey Andreyev, leader of the For Justice movement, for Petersburg residents the result will be lower prices for agricultural products and expanded selection of them.
