FBIS3-33592 "drlat038_l_94008" FBIS-LAT-94-038 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Feb 1994 SOUTH AMERICA Bolivia Labor Group Accused of Threatening Stability PY1802202394 Cochabamba LOS TIEMPOS in Spanish 10 Feb 94 p A2 PY1802202394 Cochabamba LOS TIEMPOS Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Excerpt] Labor Minister Reynaldo Peters accused the Bolivian Labor Federation [COB] of intending to carry out actions to place the governability and stability of the Bolivian state at risk with its intransigence and refusal to discuss the economic and social measures implemented by the government. Peters made this statement a few hours after several professional and labor organizations adopted radical pressure measures against the government, rejecting the capitalization of public enterprises, the reform of the social security and education system, and a wage increase of only 7.5 percent. "None of the strikes announced in the past few hours were legally notified according to the Labor Law," Peters said. He added that the Bolivian Medical Association, which will hold a 48-hour strike, and energy and telephone company workers, who will hold a 24-hour strike, "have not made any economic demand at all." He said he ordered measures to punish those who do not go to work, adding that strikes by service sector workers were declared illegal. The labor minister regretted that the Bolivian labor organizations have adopted "a frank and offensive attitude of incomprehension toward the government and its policy." He said this "labor intransigence does not reflect the will of the Bolivian people or workers; it is a political position of the labor chiefs." "Feeling relegated from the labor organization as a result of the measures announced by the government, these union leaders are making an effort to attain a more prominent position at any price," the minister said. Peters said that is the position assumed by the COB leadership, especially since the COB will hold a congress in May. "Such is the real spirit behind the labor strikes and mobilizations that are planned in the whole country," Peters said. [passage omitted]
