FBIS3-16652 "drsov053_c_94007" FBIS-SOV-94-053 Document Type:Daily Report 17 Mar 1994 Federal Assembly Duma Factions Ready To Draft Memorandum of Accord LD1703155494 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1155 GMT 17 Mar 94 LD1703155494 Moscow ITAR-TASS Language: English Article Type:BFN [By ITAR-TASS news analyst Lyudmila Aleksandrova] [Text] Moscow March 17 TASS -- Members of many parliamentary factions and parties represented in the State Duma are ready to work on a memorandum on civic peace and accord suggested by the Russian president. However, they have different notions of a document and different views on its importance. This is shown by in interview given to ITAR-TASS by representatives of parties in the lobbies of the lower chamber of parliament. Gennadiy Burbulis, member of the parliamentary faction of Russia's Choice party described the president's proposal as absolutely neccessary and very promising. "Whatever interests are pursued by those who are ready to participate in this process, the idea of civic peace and national accord is highly relevant to Russia," Burbulis said. He added that he will be assisting the president so that this idea be implemented convincingly. Valentin Kuptsov, a leader of the Communist Party of Russia, said the party is ready to take part in drafting the document. He said it should be based on a memorandum on civic peace and accord adopted by the State Duma in a package with documents on amnesty. "The memorandum should be carefully drawn up and the method of its implementation should be considered," he added. Leader of the Agrarian Party Mikhail Lapshin said the party will be involved in drafting the document, but it will raise many questions, including those regarding the revival of the Russian village, and will be watching closely that accord should not lead to the suppression of part of society. Anatoliy Sliva, representative of the Party of Russian Unity and Accord, expressed extreme perplexity over the fact that the party which, according to him, suggested the memorandum on accord to the Duma has not been invited to participate in the work on the document proposed by the president. But then, it is inessential who has come up with the idea. The point of the matter is that there is much speculation on this idea. He believes the idea of civic peace should be down-to-earth and should by implemented in specific deads. Nikolay Travkin, leader of the Democratic Party of Russia, believes that civic accord in society is indispensible, but he sees the road to it not in any one document, no matter how exhaustive and with how many parties, its signatories, but in achieving accord between the two branches of power -- executive and legislative. The opposition takes a radical stand on the matter. This was the spirit of statements of Aleksandr Nevzorov and Sergey Baburin, representatives of the "Russian Path" national patriotic group, that has not yet been registered. The former dismissed the memorandum's idea as "hypocricy." The latter said that for the president "this is not a memorandum of accord but a memorandum of humility."
