FBIS3-32130 "drlat022_p_94001" FBIS-LAT-94-022 Document Type:Daily Report 2 Feb 1994 Ecuador Increased Fuel Prices Spark More Strikes, Disturbances PA0102175794 Madrid EFE in Spanish 1612 GMT 1 Feb 94 PA0102175794 Madrid EFE Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Report by Antonio Martinez] [Excerpt] Quito, 1 Feb (EFE) -- Today, protests over the gasoline price increases of up to 71 percent caused renewed disturbances in several Ecuadoran cities. Additionally, students announced a nationwide strike for tomorrow and another by labor unions on Thursday. In Quito and other cities, there have been demonstrations every day since last Thursday, prior to the government's announcement of the price increases on Friday. At least 10 policemen and an undisclosed number of youths have either been wounded or injured. According to the local press, approximately 60 students have been arrested during clashes with the police. Several student organizations have scheduled a nationwide strike tomorrow and the United Workers Front (FUT), Ecuador's most influential labor union, has summoned all sectors to a strike on Thursday. Indian associations, teachers unions and other organizations support the FUT strike. The transportation sector has also warned the government that it will join the strike if state subsidies are not increased since the sector has been banned from raising bus fares. Thursday's strike will be the third nationwide strike by labor unions against Sixto Duran-Ballen's conservative government since he took office in 1992. FUT President Edgar Ponce warned that if the government refuses to take the protests into consideration and maintains its decision to increase gasoline prices, the FUT will call an "indefinite" strike on a later date. Ponce says the government's economic policy could prompt a "social explosion" in Ecuador like those in Chiapas (Mexico) and Santiago del Estero (Argentina). Without joining the calls for a strike, business organizations, professional associations, opposition parties, and even certain deputies from the ruling party have also protested. Former President Leon Febres Cordero (1984-88), mayor of Guayaquil, the most densely populated city in the country, described the increased prices as "crazy," and he said Ecuador is now "the poorest country on earth with the most expensive gasoline on earth." [passage omitted]
