FBIS4-46083 "jptnd013___94116" JPRS-TND-94-013 JPRS PROLIFERATION ISSUES 4 June 1994 INTERNATIONAL Russia To Sell Brazil Air Defense Missiles, Launchers Russia To Sell Brazil Air Defense Missiles, Launchers LD0406100594 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service in Russian 0530 GMT 4 Jun 94 LD0406100594 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service Russian BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Andrey Kurguzov] [Text] Brasilia, 4 Jun -- Russia is to sell Brazil air defense missiles and launchers. Agreement on this was reached here during talks which ended on Friday between the leadership of the Ministry of the Army of this major Latin American country and representatives of the Rosvooruzheniye [Russian armaments] association. In an interview with an ITAR-TASS correspondent, Col (?Cupertino), a spokesman of the Army Ministry, stated Russia will sell Brazil 112 Igla missiles used against helicopters and other low-flying targets and 56 missile launchers. To purchase this combat equipment Brazil's military chiefs have used part of the 100 million dollars allocated by the government for the modernization of the army. An ITAR-TASS correspondent received confirmation from a spokesman of the Russian Embassy in Brasilia that the deal had been concluded. Col. Cupertino stressed the deal was concluded as a result of the talks that were held in Moscow last September by Zenildo de Lucena, minister of the army, and the inter-governmental protocol of intent on trade and economic cooperation that was signed last December during the visit to Russia by Jose Andrade Vieira, then minister of industry, commerce and tourism. The protocol envisages, among other things, increasing the volume of Russian-Brazilian trade to four billion dollars in the next four years. The ministry spokesman said it was possible that other agreements in the military sphere would be reached in future and Brazil was interested in pursuing this. In connection with this, Gen. Gilberto Serra, head of the center for social relations of the Ministry of the Army, in an interview for the GLOBO newspaper said "Brazil is interested in buying from Russia as large a volume of armaments as possible at the least cost." At the present time Brazil is studying the possibility of organizing production of Igla type missiles in the country, he stressed.
