FBIS4-63383 "drsov099_a_94047" FBIS-SOV-94-099 Daily Report 20 May 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Kazimirov on Azeri Call For Armenian Withdrawal Kazimirov on Azeri Call For Armenian Withdrawal LD2005154094 Moscow INTERFAX in English 1335 GMT 20 May 94 LD2005154094 Moscow INTERFAX English BFN [Text] On return from Baku, Thursday [19 May], President Yeltsin's plenipotentiary emissary for Nagorno-Karabakh Vladimir Kazimirov told Interfax that Azerbaijan wanted an agreement on the withdrawal of the Armenian forces from the occupied Azeri territories to supplement the protocol negotiated by the Armenian and Azeri defense ministers and the commander of the Karabakh defense forces under the mediation of the Russian defense minister. Kazimirov met with the Azeri leaders in Baku. Whether a formal agreement would be concluded, was immaterial to Baku but, Kazimirov said, Baku wanted a solution for that problem. It seeks that the Armenians withdraw as soon as hostilities are ceased in what it seen as the occupied areas. The protocol was signed on May 17 by mediating Defense Minister Pavel Grachev of Russia, his Armenian counterpart Serge Sarkissyan and the commander of the Karabakh forces Samvel Babayan. In addition to a cease-fire, it calls for the presence of observers and the disengagement of the conflicting forces in the disputed zone. Without signing the document, Azerbaijan's Defense Minister Mamadrafi Mammadov left Moscow for Baku. Kazimirov hoped the Armenians would meet the Azeri demand. Understanding had been reached in principle, he said, on Armenian withdrawl from the occupied areas. The Armenians would withdraw as soon as they were sure that the hostilities were over and there was no threat to Nagorno-Karabakh. Kazimirov refused to confirm that the leaders of the conflicting parties would possibly meet by June 1. Moves were being made, he said, but uncertainty always remained when it came to setting deadlines. Although they were perfectly understandable from the human point of view, high emotions bred nervousness, and even made one doubt the possibility of a non-violent settlement. This kind of conflicts never ended under anaesthesia, Kazimirov said, they always ended in pain, if not agony. Addressing the political role of Russia in the efforts to settle the Karabakh conflict, Kazimirov said Russia could not afford to discontinue mediation because its interests were at stake.
