FBIS4-39498 "drsov110_f_94012" FBIS-SOV-94-110 Daily Report 7 Jun 1994 National Affairs Kravchuk Against Unions Based on Ethnic, Religious Grounds Kravchuk Against Unions Based on Ethnic, Religious Grounds LD0706200294 Moscow INTERFAX in English 1403 GMT 7 Jun 94 LD0706200294 Moscow INTERFAX English BFN [From the "Presidential Bulletin" feature No. 108 (598)] [Text] President Leonid Kravchuk opposed the idea of forming unions based on ethnic or religious principles in the space of the former USSR. Addressing voters in Kharkov Region Monday evening, the Ukrainian president criticized the Belarusian Premier, Vyacheslav Kebich, for his call for forming a union between three Slav countries -- Ukraine, Russia and Belarus. In Kravchuk's view, the forming of such alliance will lead to the emergence of "Asian, Muslim and other unions, to mass migrations and to war." In answer to voters' questions the president said that he had no right to sign the treaty on Ukraine's full membership in the economic union of CIS countries, since the parliament had not authorized him accordingly. IF Note: At the CIS summit held in Moscow on 15 April Kravchuk signed a document on Ukraine's joining the treaty as an associated member. He sees no fundamental difference between being a full-fledged and an associated member, he told Interfax. "The status of associated member does not prevent us from taking an active part in the economic union," Kravchuk said. He referred to the circumstance that Ukraine's parliament ratified the founding documents with reservations. "The reservations are still in force, and I cannot ignore them when signing documents," Kravchuk pointed out. As Kravchuk said, Ukraine's activity on the world scene must not be confined to interaction with the former Soviet republics. Next Tuesday in Laxembourg he will sign an agreement on partnership and cooperation with the European Union, the president told voters. IF Note: So Ukraine will be the first CIS country to sign the agreement, which was initialled by its Foreign Minister, Anatoliy Zlenko, during his visit to Brussels last February. A number of European Union members link their ratification of the agreement to Ukraine's joining the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty. The Ukrainian leadership is against such linkage.
