FBIS4-27854 "dreas108_d_94003" FBIS-EAS-94-108 Daily Report 3 Jun 1994 South Korea Government Consults With Other Nations on DPRK Government Consults With Other Nations on DPRK Sanctions Discussed With U.S. SK0406012694 Seoul KBS-1 Radio Network in Korean 2300 GMT 3 Jun 94 SK0406012694 Seoul KBS-1 Radio Network Korean BFN [Text] The ROK and the United States agreed to take gradual [tangyejogin] steps for sanctions against North Korea, which in the end refused the request of the International Atomic Energy Agency [IAEA]. Correspondent Kim In-kyu reports from Washington: [Begin Kim recording] Today at the U.S. State Department, Kim Sam-hun, ROK nuclear ambassador; and Robert Gallucci, U.S. assistant secretary of state, discussed appropriate countermeasures [taehung chochi] against the North Korean act of violating the Nuclear Safeguards Accord. They shared the view that they should take gradual sanctions against North Korea at the earliest possible date. Following the talks between the ROK and the United States, Assistant Secretary Gallucci held a special briefing at the State Department and revealed that there was no difference in views whatsoever between the two countries on steps to be taken next, including sanctions against North Korea. In particular, answering the question on a possibility of the beginning of actual sanctions against North Korea within this month, Assistant Secretary Gallucci said that for this issue, close consultations will be held with allied nations and with Standing Committee members of the UN Security Council between this weekend and next week. Thus, he made it clear that they will strongly push for sanctions this month. Nuclear Ambassador Kim Sam-hun revealed that since the foundation for continuing dialogue with North Korea collapsed, steps for sanctions against North Korea were discussed with the United States and the UN Security Council. As a result, they unanimously expressed the position that a resolution for practical sanctions must be adopted before it is too late in a bid to not lose the momentum favorable to sanctions against North Korea. Ambassador Kim Sam-hun and Assistant Secretary Gallucci pointed out that although a method of analyzing fuel rods among the three possible methods to determine the amount of plutonium North Korea has extracted up to now has vanished, another method, including a special inspection of a radiochemical waste dumping site, still remained. Thus, they suggested that there is room for dialogue if North Korea allows the special inspection. [end recording]
