FBIS3-30401 "dreeu023_i_94001" FBIS-EEU-94-023 Document Type:Daily Report 3 Feb 1994 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA British Convoy To Break Blockade of UN Forces AU0302124594 Paris AFP in English 1242 GMT 3 Feb 94 AU0302124594 Paris AFP Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Sarajevo, Feb 3 (AFP) -- A convoy of British armoured military troop transporters headed Thursday to break a Bosnian Serb blockade west of Sarajevo with instructions to use force if necessary. The force of four or five vehicles will negotiate first, and "use force if necessary," if Bosnian Serb forces did not lift a two-day blockade of UN forces using a key route between Sarajevo and central Bosnia, said UN spokesman Major Jose Labandeira. All tracked UN vehicles have been prevented from passing the blockade at Kobiljaca, around 20 kilometers (12 miles) west of the Bosnian capital. The blockade contravenes a Geneva agreement reached on November 18 guaranteeing free movement of UN peacekeeping forces, said Labandeira. The military leadership of UNPROFOR [UN Protection Forces] forces in Bosnia was "determined" to exercise the right of free movement, he added. A British officer was shot in the shoulder Wednesday as he patrolled in an unprotected vehicle on the "Diamond Route" in central Bosnia. The officer, whose life was not in danger, was evacuated from the British military base at Vitez. Gunfire came from Bosnian Croat positions. British troops in an armoured "Warrior" armoured personnel carrier fired shots over the heads of a crowd which tried to ransack lorries carrying aid at Opara, on the "Diamond Route" between Novi Travnik and Gornji Vakuf in central Bosnia, the spokesman added. The crowd dispersed after a few shots were fired. Relative calm in Sarajevo on Wednesday was broken overnight by a bombardment with 395 incoming shells, while 24 shells were fired from the city, UN forces said. A French sentry at the Skenderija base, south of Sarajevo, came under sniper fire but was not injured, the spokesman said. The sniper fire was not returned, he added.
