FBIS4-67229 "jptdd021__l94082" JPRS-TDD-94-021-L JPRS Narcotics 28 April 1994 CENTRAL EURASIA GEORGIA Shevardnadze Issues Directive on Measures To Combat Shevardnadze Issues Directive on Measures To Combat Terrorism, Drugs AU1105173494 Tbilisi SAKARTVELOS RESPUBLIKA in Georgian 28 Apr 94 p 1 AU1105173494 Tbilisi SAKARTVELOS RESPUBLIKA Georgian BFN ["Directive of the Georgian Head of State on Measures To Resolve Questions Raised at the Republican Conference of the Heads of Republic of Georgia Local Administrative Bodies, Law Enforcement Agencies, and Ministries and Departments Held on 22 April 1994"] [Text] In order to resolve questions raised at the republican conference of heads of Republic of Georgia local administrative bodies, law enforcement agencies, and ministries and departments: 1. The Republic of Georgia Cabinet of Ministers, in connection with the withdrawal of units of Ministry of Internal Affairs personnel temporarily located in regions of western Georgia, is to discuss proposals concerning an increase in the administrative staff of town and rayon police and supplying units of internal troops located in western Georgia with provisions. 2. The governmental commission combating drug addiction (I. Menagharishvili) is to control systematically the implementation of the edict of the Georgian head of state of 21 April 1994 "On Urgent Measures To Strengthen the Struggle Against Drug Addiction and the Drugs Business." 3. The Republic of Georgia Security Service (I. Giorgadze), the Republic of Georgia Procurator's Office (J. Babilashvili), the Republic of Georgia Ministry of Internal Affairs (Sh. Kviraia), and the Republic of Georgia Ministry of Justice (T. Ninidze) are to elaborate and submit to the head of state a plan for measures aimed at strengthening the fight against corruption in the country. 4. The Republic of Georgia Security Service (I. Giorgadze) along with the Republic of Georgia Ministry of Internal Affairs (Sh. Kviraia) and the Republic of Georgia Procurator's Office are to adopt specific measures to halt acts of terrorism in the country. They are to report to me by 15 May on the progress of investigations into terrorist acts that have taken place. 5. The Republic of Georgia Ministry of Justice (T. Ninidze), the Republic of Georgia Ministry of Internal Affairs (Sh. Kviraia), the Republic of Georgia Security Service (I. Giorgadze), and the Republic of Georgia Procurator's Office (J. Babilashvili) are to study and present information within one month on the legality of the financial activities of political parties registered in the Republic of Georgia. 6. The heads of Republic of Georgia local administrative bodies, law enforcement agencies, and ministries and departments are to concern themselves with improving work opportunities for and the living conditions of those participating in struggles for the territorial integrity of Georgia. 7. The Republic of Georgia Ministry of Internal Affairs (Sh. Kviraia) and the Republic of Georgia Security Service (I. Giorgadze) are to observe the requirements of current legislation, not permit actions that violate the dignity and honor of the individual, and ensure the protection of citizens' rights when implementing operative measures. [Signed] E. Shevardnadze. Tbilisi, 27 April 1994.
