FBIS3-5769 "dreas047_d_94016" FBIS-EAS-94-047 Document Type:Daily Report 10 Mar 1994 South Korea ROK To Scale Back Concessions on GATT List Items SK1003025394 Seoul YONHAP in English 0209 GMT 10 Mar 94 SK1003025394 Seoul YONHAP Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Seoul, March 10 (YONHAP) -- South Korea has decided to scale back tariff concessions on nine industrial items in its list of Uruguay Round commitments due to be submitted to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) on Friday. The Economic Planning Board presided over an international policy meeting Thursday and decided to impose duties of 3 percent to 4 percent on the nine industrial imports rather than abolishing them, as agreed earlier with the United States in the GATT-sponsored negotiations last December. In its country schedule, Washington also scaled back tariff concessions recently on the grounds that Japan and the European union had failed to make comparable offers. Subject to 3-percent duties are three copper products -- tube or pipe fittings of copper and alloy, stranded wire copper cable, plated bands and the like. Under 4-percent tariffs came computer equipment -- input and output units, printers, monitors and cathode-ray tube terminals -- and semiconductor devices -- piezoelectric crystals and crystal vibrators. With the changes, Korea presented non-tariffication offers on 965 manufactured items instead of the initial 974. The United States had proposed abolishing tariffs on some electronic, non-ferrous and wood products last December but, rebuffed by Japan, it submitted smaller tariff concessions in the industrial section at the GATT on Feb. 28, a Finance Ministry official said. Seoul, accordingly, decided to offer tariff cuts instead of none on the same nine items that Washington had scaled down, he said. It again followed Washington in setting rates, levying the same 3 percent tariffs on copper goods as the United States and other major countries and slashing the current 8-percent duties on electronic goods 50 percent to 4 percent, as was done by the Americans. Together with its agricultural country schedule, Korea will submit the revised list of industrial offers to the Geneva-based GATT headquarters on Friday. The schedules of every country undergo screening until March 21, and those drawing complaints from concerned exporting or importing countries will have to go through extra consultations. Seoul officials say they will actively participate in the screening process to protect their country's interests. Once the screening is finished, the overall Uruguay Round accord -- whether it is revised from the Dec. 15 version or not -- will be signed at a ministerial meeting in Morocco in April.
