FBIS4-48453 "drafr097_c_94005" FBIS-AFR-94-097 Daily Report 19 May 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA More `Third Force' Arrests Expected More `Third Force' Arrests Expected MB1905120994 Johannesburg THE STAR in English 19 May 94 p 2 MB1905120994 Johannesburg THE STAR English BFN [Report by Helen Grace] [Text] More arrests are in the pipeline as the international team investigating the Goldstone Commission's allegations of police complicity in Third Force activities continues to probe criminal conduct in the police force. The investigation -- which has already led to the arrest of four men including former Vlakplaas training camp commander Lieutenant- Colonel Eugene de Kock -- has expanded beyond the Goldstone Commission's allegations of gun smuggling to the IFP and is now embracing a diversity of other allegations. The team is understood to be receiving information from a "deep throat" in the SAP [South African] about a secret police slush fund -- controlled by a division called Stratkom -- to finance disinformation about the ANC. Several senior policemen said to be in charge of the operation, which was allegedly still operating late last year, are now under scrutiny. Sources close to the investigation team, led by Transvaal Attorney-General Jan D'Oliveira, declined to furnish any details on the team's work yesterday. One source said, however, that more arrests were likely in the near future. The first men arrested once the team began its work on the Goldstone Commission report on arms smuggling were Captain de Kock, Sergeant Jannie Hannekom and Ben van Zyl, believed to have been a former detective at the Brixton Murder and Robbery Squad and latterly a police informer. Last week, a man called James Ntsibande was also arrested in connection with evidence found by the investigation team. All the men are charged with murder and are in police custody. De Kock and Hannekom are scheduled to appear in the Pretoria Regional Court again today, and Van Zyl and Ntsibande will appear in court tomorrow.
