FBIS4-335 "drafr068_c_94015" FBIS-AFR-94-068 Daily Report 7 Apr 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA AVF Issues Statement on Citizen Protection Measures AVF Issues Statement on Citizen Protection Measures MB0704161894 Pretoria Radio Pretoria in Afrikaans 0520 GMT 7 Apr 94 MB0704161894 Pretoria Radio Pretoria Afrikaans BFN [Station commentary] [Text] This morning Radio Pretoria's commentary will carry the full text of a statement by the Afrikaner Volksfront [Afrikaner National Front] on citizen protection. The statement reads as follows: The Boer Afrikaner community is three weeks away from an event which has the potential of becoming a powder keg. This event is the 27 April election. It is a deadly game. All responsible observers both here and overseas have warned against it. Members of the community and their leaders have a tremendous responsibility, and time is very limited. Get hold of existing citizen protection literatude for hints as soon as possible. Become a close community. Mark the information in these documents according to the changing requirements in your community. The whole community must be involved: the weak, such as children, the infirm, the aged; and the strong and those who can defend their people. Remember the key points, the places which need to be protected. These include the schools, hospitals, nursery schools, and old-age homes. Check on your supplies -- not just food and fuel, but also make sure you have sufficient medical supplies. Arrange for proper emergency communication facilities such as walkie-talkies and citizen band radios. Try to involve the total Boer Afrikaner community in this citizen protection exercise -- the worker, ambulanceman, doctor, nurse, chemist, priest, soldier, policeman, bus driver, train driver, bank manager, farmer, and miner. Get the whole community involved in exercises more than once, if possible. The whole citizen network must become involved. Be positive about the matter. Those who would like you to believe this is not a serious matter do not have your and your community's interests at heart. Do what you have to do thoroughly and earnestly. Do it religiously and help to achieve our own free homeland.
