FBIS3-53634 "drnes011_v_94004" FBIS-NES-94-011 Document Type:Daily Report 18 Jan 1994 Pakistan French Minister, Defense Delegation Arrives Cooperation Discussed BK1701093394 Islamabad THE NEWS in English 17 Jan 94 p 1 BK1701093394 Islamabad THE NEWS Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Rawalpindi -- A meeting was held Sunday morning between the French and Pakistani delegations led by the ministers for defence. The delegations discussed the training of officers of the armed forces in the institutions of each other's country, transfer of technology, possibilities of joint ventures between the French manufacturers and Pakistani counterparts and provision of defence equipment to Pakistan on competitive prices. The two sides also discussed about the supply of helicopters, Mirage-2000-5 aircraft, manufacture of spare parts of Mirage-III/v at Kamra and Agosta-90 class submarines to Pakistan. The schedule of the next meeting of joint technical committee was also revised from April 1994 to second week of March, 1994 to work out technical details of all issues at technical level. Mr. Mirani was assisted by the secretary defence production division, Mr. Mazhar Rafi, director general joint staff, J S headquarter, Lt General Chaudhry Sardar Ali, additional secretaries defence and defence production divisions, Maj Gen. Jamshed Malik and Maj Gen. Ahmed Ali and his counterpart Francois Leotard was assisted by the French ambassador, Mr Pierre Lafrance. Later, the visiting dignitary was given a very warm send off by the defence minister, Mr Aftab Shaban Mirani, and senior officials of the ministry at Islamabad Airport. Earlier, the defence minister of France visited Air Headquarters, Chaklala, and called on Chief of the Air Staff, Air Chief Marshal Farooq Feroze Khan, here Sunday. The visiting minister along with his delegation remained with the PAF [Pakistan Air Force] Chief for some time. Meanwhile, Jang news Service adds: French government is reported to have allowed Pakistan to purchase all necessary military equipment from French public and private sector concerns. Sources said talks with the French Companies for the procurement of Mirage-2000-5 fighters, Agosta-90 submarines and other military equipment will be started very soon. A high level French delegation, including two top officials of French Companies DCN and DCNI, will arrive here on January 24 to finalise deal with Pakistan to provide submarines for Pak Navy. Sources said Pakistani officials and the French experts' team will hold indepth discussion on all the technical and financial aspects of the submarine deal.
