FBIS4-22866 "jpust008___94069" JPRS-UST-94-008 JPRS Science & Technology Central Eurasia 31 March 1994 ENGINEERING AND EQUIPMENT NUCLEAR AND NON-NUCLEAR ENERGY Assessment of Environmental Effect of Enterprises That Assessment of Environmental Effect of Enterprises That Handle Radioactive Waste 947F0064E Moscow ATOMNAYA ENERGIYA CCDD94 in Russian Vol. 75, No. 5, November 1993 pp 389-391 947F0064E Moscow ATOMNAYA ENERGIYA CCDD94 Russian CSO [Article by V.V. Verbov, O.G. Polskiy, Yu.V. Puzanov, I.A. Sobolev, N.I. Belova and L.F. Verbova (MosNPO [Moscow scientific production association] ``Radon''); UDC 550.373] [Abstract] Specialized enterprises that handle radioactive waste perform centralized collection, transportation, processing and burial of low and medium radioactive waste in various Russia and CIS regions. Their activity brings up questions of the possible effect on environment, personnel and population of adjacent territories. Radioecological inspections of 19 specialized enterprises were conducted in 1989-1993. The article presents a block diagram of operation of these enterprises, which actually shows a model of possible transfer of radioactive substances from an enterprise into environment. To obtain information on the radioecological status of the environment one studied _g_ radiation fields in various zones of each enterprise and the content of _a_ and _b_ emitting products and individual radionuclides in water, soil and vegetation. Results of the analysis for all specialized enterprises demonstrated that there was no noticeable effect on environmental objects. However, it is possible that this conclusion was the result of insufficient sensitivity of observation equipment, the small size of the statistical sampling and non-representative character of the samples. No correlation was found when a criterion based on the principle of independence of data related to different enterprises located far away from each other was used when the effect of radiation background was discounted. Within the error of measurement no environmental effect of the enterprises was found when using available procedures. However, one cannot consider this analysis as unbiased if one does not take into account radiation background data. Figures 2.
