FBIS4-10822 "drlat075__a94009" FBIS-LAT-93-075-A Daily Report 15 Apr 1994 ANNEX Cuba Concludes Visit to Argentina Concludes Visit to Argentina PA1704182994 Havana PRENSA LATINA in Spanish 0302 GMT 15 Apr 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY PA1704182994 Havana PRENSA LATINA Spanish BFN [Text] Buenos Aires, 14 Apr (PL) -- Cuban Foreign Minister Roberto Robaina concluded a 48-hour visit to Argentina today with a meeting during which he thanked participants for their solidarity with Cuba and assured them that Cubans will resist until they win. Robaina stressed during his speech that Cuba's independence, sovereignty, right to speak for itself, and other principles are not negotiable. When introducing Robaina, Monsignor Pedro Padura, bishop of Rosario, reiterated the Argentine people's solidarity with Cuba and encouraged the Cubans to continue "tending their garden of hope." Robaina responded by saying that his fellow countrymen know how to tend that garden with "their sweat, their hearts, and their very lives if necessary." The event was held in a theater in downtown Buenos Aires and attended by more than 1,000 people. It was organized by the Solidarity With Cuba group made up of dozens of friendship societies from various sectors. The Cuban leader spoke at length of the current situation in Cuba, denounced the U.S. blockade, and expressed his appreciation for international solidarity with Cuba. Regarding the anti-Cuban campaign focused on the alleged violation of human rights on the island, Robaina strongly rejected those accusations and said there are millions of people in the world who have no rights at all. There are millions of people, Robaina stressed, who cannot read or write those two words (human rights). Robaina met yesterday with Argentine President Carlos Saul Menem during a meeting the two leaders described as positive. Robaina also met with members of the Senate and Chamber of Deputies foreign affairs committees, held two working sessions with acting Foreign Minister Fernando Petrella, and met with Deputy Economy Minister Carlos Sanchez. The distinguished guest also spoke of "investment and trade with Cuba" at the headquarters of the Argentine Chamber of Commerce and discussed Cuba's foreign policy with members of the International Relations Council (CARI). Robaina was declared "illustrious guest" by the Buenos Aires Study Council [Consejo Deliberante de Buenos Aires] and met with former President Raul Alfonsin, leader of the Radical Civic Union, and members of the broad front coalition and the socialist union. Robaina also met with Cubans residing in Buenos Aires.
