FBIS3-36418 "drsov025_c_94003" FBIS-SOV-94-025 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Feb 1994 Federal Assembly Duma Rules for Promulgation of Laws Cited MK0502110094 Moscow KOMMERSANT-DAILY in Russian 5 Feb 94 p 2 MK0502110094 Moscow KOMMERSANT-DAILY Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Larisa Yevtushik report: "Rules for Publication of Normative Act. State Duma Defines Procedure for Laws To Enter Into Force"] [Text] The lower chamber of parliament passed yesterday in the first reading a law "On the Procedure for Publishing and Entry Into Force of Federal Constitutional Laws, Federal Laws, Acts of the Russian Federation Federal Council Chambers." The publishing of laws and other legal acts for general information is one of the principles of a rule-of-law state. Laws that are not published officially shall not apply. The procedure for publishing federal constitutional laws is envisioned by the Constitution. The procedure for publishing legal acts will be determined by the law considered by the Duma yesterday. Laws shall enter into force on the entire territory of Russia 10 days after their first official publication unless the laws or other acts specify some other procedure of entering into force. The publication of laws in VEDOMOSTI FEDERALNOGO SOBRANIYA ROSSIYSKOY FEDERATSII, ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA, and the newspaper ROSSIYSKIYE VESTI, shall be regarded as official. Federal constitutional law, federal laws, acts of the Federal Council chambers may be officially published in different press organs, or be brought to general knowledge over television, radio, or transmitted via communication lines, or sent to state organs, officials, enterprises, institutions, organizations. VEDOMOSTI FEDERALNOGO SOBRANIYA ROSSIYSKOY FEDERATSII shall be the official periodic publication of parliament. It will publish not only laws, decrees, and other parliament acts, but also international treaties, Constitutional Court decisions, materials of parliament hearings, and official communications of the Central Electoral Commission. Legal Acts Publication Deadlines -- Federal constitutional laws and federal laws shall be officially published within time frames established by the Russian Federation Constitution for their promulgation. -- Decrees, statements, appeals, and other acts of the Federal Council chambers shall be published within seven days of their adoption.
