FBIS3-36119 "drsov023_u_94002" FBIS-SOV-94-023 Document Type:Daily Report 3 Feb 1994 Latvia Delegation Meets With Christopher LD0202171794 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1621 GMT 2 Feb 94 LD0202171794 Moscow ITAR-TASS Language: English Article Type:BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Galina Kuchina] [Text] Riga February 2 TASS -- Latvia's delegation ended talks on Latvian-Russian relations, the withdrawal of Russian troops from the republic and the fate of the Russian radar in Skrunda in Washington on Wednesday. The delegation met with U.S. Secretary of State Warren Christopher, Pentagon officials and members of the National Security Council. They assured Latvia that no joint tactics of troop withdrawal or radar station close-down had been worked out during the U.S.-Russian summit meeting in Moscow last month. Their statements ran counter to a NEW YORK TIMES publication of January 30, 1994 which said that American and Russian specialists had agreed to keep the station for another four years and dismantle it within 18 months after that. Latvian President Guntis Ulmanis did not rule out the possibility of holding a referendum on the radar station. However, Parliament Chairman Anatoliy Gorbunovs believes the referendum may disrupt negotiations. Latvian parliamentarians who attended the session of the Europarliament Inter-parliamentary Assembly in Strasbourg this week expressed concern that some influential deputies from France, Germany and Britain prioritise the signing of agreements between Estonia, Latvia and Russia on troop withdrawal rather than the pullout itself. Local observers are at a loss trying to find possible explanations to this position. Latvia insists on strict observance of resolutions of the United Nations and the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe which call for fast and organised withdrawal of troops. At the same time, head of the Latvian Parliamentary Commission for Foreign Affairs, Aleksandrs Kirsteins, vows that the troops can be withdrawn without any agreement. The delegation left the U.S. and flew to Sweden where it intends to continue the talks.
