FBIS4-44882 "jpjst028__l94018" JPRS-JST-94-028L JPRS Science & Technology Japan 31 March 1994 Technology Transfer Showa Shell Seiyu To Provide Cogeneration Technology to Showa Shell Seiyu To Provide Cogeneration Technology to Korean Company 943FE0607D Tokyo NIKKEI SANGYO SHIMBUN in Japanese 31 Mar 94 p 13--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 943FE0607D Tokyo NIKKEI SANGYO SHIMBUN Japanese CSO [Text] Showa Shell Sekiyu K.K. will provide Korean firm, [Kinsei Sanden] with a cogeneration system technology. The system under consideration is designed to generate power using heavy gravity oil A as well as to make effective use of waste heat. Showa Shell will offer design and know-how of the method of evaluating the system's cost effectiveness. In Asia, including Korea, cogeneration technology has yet to enjoy a widespread use. Noting a rapid increase in energy demand, the company had decided that cogeneration technology shows promise and begun aiming for building a foothold for entry into the Korean market. The petroleum cogeneration system is an electric power saving system which, in addition to generating power mainly used in diesel engines, utilizes waste heat used in meeting demands for hot water and air conditioning. According to the contract signed by both parties, Showa Shell Sekiyu will provide the design techniques for optimal equipment. The figures used for the level of usage of heat and electricity by building owners and other types of users are based on assumption. The company also will allow the use of its own programs specifically developed for assessing the system's cost effectiveness. In the area of training, Showa Shell already has received two technical trainees from Korea. When a purchase order has been successfully concluded in Korea, the company will send its own engineers/technicians if requested by the Korean firm. The term of the contract on technical cooperation is two years. Showa Shell installed a 3000kW cogeneration system in a shopping center, which opened last year in Sagamihara City, Kanagawa Prefecture, to provide its retail store tenants with heat and electricity. This was the first time oil was sold in this way in Japan, directly from the petroleum company to users. In the future, the similar method will be used in variously-located regional development projects. In Asia, economic development is creating a rapid growth in energy demand, resulting in shortage of electric power supply which is becoming extremely serious. Although development of electric sources is moving rapidly, it is not possible to catch up with demand at present. For this reason, such a distributed electric source as an oil cogeneration system is attracting attention, If the Korean venture should prove successful, then the technology could spread to other regions of Asia.
