FBIS4-8675 "dreeu074_p_94007" FBIS-EEU-94-074 Daily Report 15 Apr 1994 POLAND Ties Between Walesa, Solidarity Examined Ties Between Walesa, Solidarity Examined WS1504133294 Warsaw GAZETA WYBORCZA in Polish 15 Apr 94 p 3 WS1504133294 Warsaw GAZETA WYBORCZA Polish BFN [Article by Wojciech Zaluska: "You Shall Return; Will 'Solidarity' Support Walesa in Presidential Elections?"] [Text] "The most important thing is to target the electorate in the correct manner" -- Lech Walesa keeps saying before the presidential elections. As for himself, he is targeting "Solidarity" and he has already made it his first offer. Professor Zbigniew Religa is the intermediary -- the chief of the pro- Belvedere Non-Party Bloc in Support of Reforms, wants to put his parliamentary club at the disposal of "Solidarity." But first the trade union and the Belvedere must apologize to one another. Separation or Divorce? Walesa stopped being interested in "Solidarity" three years ago, when he became president. It was easier to fight for power along with the trade union, than to be in power with it. The issue of file-checking was the ultimate reason behind the dispute between the two sides. Walesa brought Olszewski's government down and "Solidarity" did not invite him to its national congress. The trade union and the Belvedere turned their backs on each other. "We are beginning to go separate ways" -- stated the president a year ago. But today, he is making gestures aimed at an agreement. He recalled that "Solidarity" exists in February, after a big, anti- government rally in Warsaw. That was a message that the trade union is again gaining strength. Something in Return for Something Else Walesa needs the trade union again. The elections will be in a year and a half, while he continues to be without a "home front." There is a political vacuum surrounding the Belvedere. The attempt to create a presidential camp along with the right wing, backfired. "Solidarity" remains. What can Walesa offer the trade union in return for its support? He can offer it what the trade union is missing the most -- efficiency. Walesa Holds the Pen The day 19 September was a day of defeat for the old anticommunist opposition. The coalition, consisting of the Democratic Left Alliance and the Polish Peasant Party, seemed to be made of granite. For six months now, Walesa has been successfully breaking the granite into pieces. He signed Borowski's resignation and he blocked Rosati's nomination. His veto "killed" popiwek [earning control legislation]. The trade union was not capable of accomplishing that over four years. The president's pen turned out a more effective political weapon than protests and strikes by "Solidarity." This must impress. And it does. We know from "leaks" that Walesa's shares are "going up" in the trade union's National Commission. Everybody or Nobody? But the involvement of "Solidarity" in the presidential campaign cannot be determined through a vote. Either the entire trade union will support him, or else...it will split. There is no one "Solidarity" "on the Walesa issue." It includes both pro-presidential and anti-presidential activists. They were both in the crowds that burned Walesa in effigy, and among those who expressed their indignation at the burners. That is why a decision on whether or not to support Walesa will not be made soon. It is possible that "Solidarity" will not be capable of making such a decision at all.
