FBIS3-39261 "drweu031_h_94009" FBIS-WEU-94-031 Document Type:Daily Report 15 Feb 1994 GERMANY CDU Official Outlines Election Campaign Strategy AU1102164694 Berlin DIE WELT in German 11 Feb 94 p 1 AU1102164694 Berlin DIE WELT Language: German Article Type:BFN [Martin S. Lambeck report: "Hintze Wants To Focus on Jobs in Election Campaign"] [Text] Bonn -- In an interview with DIE WELT, Peter Hintze, secretary general of the Christian Democratic Union [CDU], noted a "worldwide tendency toward change" among the governments -- irrespective of the orientation of the governments. In view of the worldwide recession, voters in the United States, Japan, or Greece act according to the following slogan: "Let us try the opposition." Elections in Great Britain and Spain were exceptions. "There, the population considered the risk of a change to be too high." Hintze added: "This also applies to Germany. We will intensify the risk awareness during the election campaign. In view of the readiness among the population for change, Hintze supports a strategy that advocates the required political changes." Thus, the CDU must offer factual and emotional arguments in the field of the economy and jobs during the election campaign, Hintze demanded. For this reason, the CDU wants to present its concept for growth and employment on the first day of its party congress in Hamburg. Hintze stressed: "Foreign and security policy is an important area for the CDU/Christian Social Union [CSU] where it has a clear lead over the Social Democratic Party of Germany [SPD]. However, foreign and security issues alone are not sufficient for an election campaign." The CDU official referred warningly to the election campaign of former U.S. President George Bush against his challenger Bill Clinton. Bush mainly concentrated on foreign and security issues. The Democrats and Bill Clinton, however, focused on jobs. "The major topic in Germany is jobs, too," Hintze pointed out. Thus, the CDU/CSU "must present new ideas for the economy and the employment situation" in the super election year 1994. Hintze stressed: "With Helmut Kohl, we must create prospects for the future at a time of great insecurity and worldwide changes." "It is not enough to simply attack the Social Democrats. The citizens expect us to develop clear prospects for the future during the election campaign." In this respect, the voters must be convinced that the SPD is no alternative to the Bonn coalition. Hintze stated: "Risking an alliance between the SPD and the Greens means endangering the economy and jobs."
