FBIS4-39675 "drsov111_e_94001" FBIS-SOV-94-111 Daily Report 8 Jun 1994 UKRAINE International Affairs DPRK Minister on Talks, Nuclear Weapons, Unification DPRK Minister on Talks, Nuclear Weapons, Unification LD0806212594 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 2103 GMT 8 Jun 94 LD0806212594 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [Report by UKRINFORM correspondent Aleksey Trotsenko for TASS] [Excerpts] Kiev 9 June TASS -- Ukraine and North Korea signed a consular convention and several other inter-state agreements on Wednesday [8 June]. North Korean Foreign Minister Kim Yong-nam who is on an official visit in Ukraine and his Ukrainian counterpart Anatoliy Zlenko also signed a protocol on consultations between the Ukrainian and North Korean foreign ministries. After the signing ceremony Kim Yong-nam met with journalists to answer their questions. He said that his talks with Ukrainian President Leonid Kravchuk, Deputy Parliamentary Chairman Aleksandr Tkachenko and Foreign Minister Zlenko helped him understand better the processes going on in Ukraine. Speaking about the nuclear problem, the minister stressed that it is "artificial. It was created by certain circles in the U.S. and IAEA (International Atomic Energy Agency) in order to strangle socialism in the country." "The nuclear crisis on the peninsular must be solved by the United States and North Korea through negotiations," he said. [passage omitted] He emphasised that the peaceful settlement of the conflict will largely depend on the successful outcome of the talks with the United Nations and IAEA. He expressed regret that the first two rounds of talks did not bring the desired results and noted that North Korea pins hopes on the third round. [passage omitted] Asked about what nuclear weapons North Korea could afford today, Kim Yong-nam replied that "we have no any nuclear weapons. Moreover, we have neither possibilities, nor equipment, nor funds to make them." Speaking about prospects for reunification with South Korea, the minister said that only peaceful reunification is possible, without interference of other countries. The two countries should form a confederation, while preserving their systems and governments, he said.
