FBIS4-12601 "drnes069_l_94023" FBIS-NES-94-069 Daily Report 6 Apr 1994 ISRAEL Study Completed on Border Demarcation With Jordan Study Completed on Border Demarcation With Jordan TA0604100594 Tel Aviv HA'ARETZ in Hebrew 6 Apr 94 p A1 TA0604100594 Tel Aviv HA'ARETZ Hebrew BFN [Report by political correspondent Aluf Ben] [Excerpt] Israel has completed a comprehensive study on the demarcation of the Israeli-Jordanian border to be used as a basis in the negotiations with Jordan. The document analyzes the problems with the demarcation of the border, which runs from Hammat Gader in the north to Elat in the south, through the Jordan and al-Yarmukh Rivers and the 'Arava. The Israeli-Jordanian border has never been demarcated by mutual consent, either on maps on in the field. Its current configuration is based on general descriptions dating back to the time of the British mandate. The joint agenda of the talks stipulates that the border will be demarcated taking these descriptions into consideration. The study depicts numerous problems involved in the demarcation of the border (which runs through the center of the Jordan River and the Dead Sea) due to changes in the river flow and the lake's size, and raises questions such as determining the sovereignty over small islands in the Jordan River. Jordan has various claims from Israel concerning the borders, first and foremost, to get back areas in the 'Arava occupied by Israel after the Six-Day War. Jordan has been pressuring Israel to discuss the demarcation of the border, posing it as a condition for progress in the peace talks. Jordan has not yet submitted a detailed account of its demands in the framework of the Washington talks. A debate about joint development projects in the 'Arava is scheduled to be held in the next meeting of the joint Israeli- Jordanian-U.S. economic committee. Although Israel and Jordan have been discussing joint projects, the Jordanians demand to discuss the demarcation of the border first, because those projects are slated for the border area. Prime Minister Yitzhaq Rabin has instructed the Israeli delegation to the talks with Jordan not to discuss the border issue before the Jordanians agree to engage in serious discussions on the formulation of a peace treaty between the two countries. [passage omitted]
