FBIS4-34423 "drlat118_t_94013" FBIS-LAT-94-118 Daily Report 15 Jun 1994 Venezuela Commanders Criticize Senate Promotion Method Commanders Criticize Senate Promotion Method PA1906021994 Caracas EL NACIONAL in Spanish 15 Jun 94 p d-2 PA1906021994 Caracas EL NACIONAL Spanish BFN [Report by Ascension Reyes R.] [Text] There are rumors in the Senate Defense Commission that several Armed Forces commanders are unsatisfied with the Commission's new method of evaluating candidates for promotion. The discontent is due primarily to the fact that leading military commanders believe the Commission is overstepping its authority by requesting documents that had not been previously required. They also object to filling out a questionnaire, which must be submitted by candidates ranging in rank from lieutenant colonel to colonel and from Navy commander to Navy captain. Candidates for division general and vice-admiral are excluded from this procedure. It seems that Defense Minister General Rafael Montero Revette also disagrees with the evaluation system used by the Senate Commission. The system requires an interview with each candidate, some of whom were excluded from consideration at the last minute. For its part, the Defense Commission has presented numerous objections to the list of candidates presented by the National Guard and Army. Several legislators say the lists are unclear and have pointed out several contradictions between the "Order of Initial Precedence (OPI)" and the "Correction Factors." The senators also disagree with the changes made following the initial evaluation and the final results presented by the Defense Ministry. They do not understand why in some cases the OPI states that the officers have done excellent work, but later the candidates are given a negative score and a request is made that the candidate be "placed in a post compatible with their professional performance" without specifying the person's faults. The senators feel there is a contradiction in saying that a person is excellent and later downgrading him on the list. The Defense Commission has received more than four cases of candidates for promotion who were rejected. Those officers have met with the legislators to give them their files. Veto to Division Generals On another issue, it has been reported that several of the names proposed by President Rafael Caldera to be promoted to division generals do not have the support of all senators. Several senators say the candidates do not merit promotion while others who are more meritorious were not taken into account. It is thus possible that the legislature will vote against several of those promotions.
