FBIS3-13349 "drnes049_g_94001" FBIS-NES-94-049 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Mar 1994 Sudan Al-Bashir Delivers 'Id al-Fitr Message EA1303153794 Omdurman National Unity Radio in Arabic 1315 GMT 13 Mar 94 EA1303153794 Omdurman National Unity Radio Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Text] President of the Republic Lieutenant General 'Umar al-Bashir has congratulated the Sudanese masses on the coming of the blessed 'Id al-Fitr, calling for adherence to solidarity, altruism and remembrance of God. In his address to the citizens to mark the coming of the blessed 'Id al-Fitr, his excellency referred to the oppression directed against Muslims in many parts of the Islamic world, particularly in Palestine and Bosnia-Herzegovina, where the Serbs were murdering Muslims, helped by the conspiracy of international silence which prevents the Muslims from obtaining arms with which to defend themselves against Serbian aggression, while the Zionist criminals kill worshipers in Palestine without any regard for Islam. Lt. Gen. 'Umar al-Bashir said that in spite of that, hearts have not despaired of the mercy of God, for goodness still prevails in Muhamad's nation and in the ranks of the mujahedin fighting in God's cause who have come together to win victory for God's religion. The president of the Republic praised the fighters of the armed forces and the People's Defense Forces for making great sacrifices in their efforts to bring security to the south of the country. He praised them for sheltering the deprived migrants whose property has been destroyed and whose children have been kidnapped, having been scorned in their efforts to uphold the unity and sovereignty of Sudan. Lt. Gen. al-Bashir said: We (?foresee) that peace will come soon by virtue of the efforts being made inside the country to secure the fearful, feed the hungry, and to repair what the war has destroyed; also by virtue of the mediation efforts being made by the African brothers to bring the parties to the negotiating table. On the occasion of the blessed auspicious 'Id al-Fitr, his excellency called for peace aspired to by the sons of Sudan at home with the help of friends and brothers.
