FBIS4-22314 "jpusr034___94018" FBIS-USR-94-034 JPRS FBIS Report: Central Eurasia 24 March 1994 RUSSIA REGIONAL AFFAIRS Foreign Banks View Prospects in Tatarstan Foreign Banks View Prospects in Tatarstan 944F0486A Kazan RESPUBLIKA TATARSTAN in Russian 24 Mar 94 p 1 944F0486A Kazan RESPUBLIKA TATARSTAN Russian CSO [Report by Ye. Taran: "Such Diplomatic Bankers"] [Text] A press conference of specialists from the largest Dresdner Bank in Europe and Banque Nacionale de Paris--here to participate in the seminar on banking business--was held yesterday in Kazan. Naturally, journalists were interested not so much in the fine points of the banking business as in the prospects of cooperation between European banks and Tatarstan enterprises, and the possibility of receiving secured loans. However, neither the Dresdner Bank representative, Dr. Martini, who essentially answered all correspondents' questions, nor the rest of the press conference participants said anything specific in this respect. Western bankers intend first to study the situation in the Russian and Tatarstan economies and identify preferred investment projects, and only then to talk about money. It seems, though, that even after the "study" one can hardly count on loans. For instance, according to Tatsotsbank Chairman of the Board Lyudmila Kitaitseva, Dresdner Bank representatives already had studied the possibility of extending credit and have not discovered any obstacles, but are in no hurry to begin working together. Interestingly enough, the Tatsotsbank still found foreign currency loan money for its clients--right here in Tatarstan. Or this fact. During the Republic of Tatarstan delegation's visit to Germany a protocol of intentions was signed with Dresdner Bank on providing loans to Tatarstan for specific projects. Either the projects are not ready yet, or the German side has its doubts, but we still do not have these loans. At least Dr. Martini was unable to answer why intentions remained on paper. By the way, foreign bankers did not conceal that right now they can only help us verbally and with papers (that is, educational materials on banking business); as to more substantial cooperation, this is a matter for the future. However, the possibility of opening branches of Dresdner Bank and Banque Nacionale de Paris in Tatarstan is currently under study. Overall, however, our guests have displayed a truly diplomatic finesse: They answered journalists' questions for more than 40 minutes but said very, very little.
