FBIS3-28720 "dreas028_l_94001" FBIS-EAS-94-028 Document Type:Daily Report 10 Feb 1994 Philippines Mahathir Expresses Interest in Sabah Settlement BK1002075994 Manila MANILA STANDARD in English 8 Feb 94 p 3 BK1002075994 Manila MANILA STANDARD Language: English Article Type:BFN [By Fel V. Maragay] [Text] President Ramos disclosed yesterday that Malaysian Prime Minister Mahathir bin Mohamed had expressed his desire for the final settlement of the Sabah claim during his state visit last week. He said that while the Sabah issue was not in the agenda of Mahathir's visit, he (Ramos) brought up the subject during their one-on-one meeting at Malacanang last Thursday. Mr. Ramos said he informed the Malaysian premier that the government put up a foundation to help the heirs and descendants of the Sultan of Sulu in terms of investment and livelihood opportunities instead of depending on the small rental paid annually by the Malaysian government. He said Mahathir conveyed his wish to assist the heirs of the Sulu sultan, "if my help is needed please let me know," Ramos quoted the Malaysian head of government as saying. The late Sultan Ismail Kiram of Sulu ceded to the Philippine government sovereignty rights over Sabah in 1963 in order to recover the territory which become part of Malaysia. But the proprietary rights remain with the Sulu sultanate. Based on the decision of a Malaysian court in 1939, the heirs were entitled to an annual rental payment of 5,000 Malaysian ringgits (about P50,000.00 [Philippine pesos]). Mr. Ramos debunked the claims of some of the heirs that the government has been neglecting its commitment to help in resolving their propriety or compensation claims. He said the issue is being addressed by the executive-legislative council on Sabah claim and the Sabah desk of the Department of Foreign Affairs (DFA). The president said the certain problems were created by the destruction of valuable documents on the Sabah claim when the old DFA building along Padre Faura street, Manila was burned a few years ago. He said a group of scholars have been trying to reconstruct these documents. Mr. Ramos said part of the comprehensive solution of the Sabah Issue is his proposal for the creation of an East ASEAN growth area (EAGA) composed of Mindanao, East Malaysia, Eastern Indonesia and Brunei Darussalam.
