FBIS3-24833 "drafr022_c_94002" FBIS-AFR-94-022 Document Type:Daily Report 2 Feb 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA De Klerk Announces National Party's Candidate List MB0102192294 Johannesburg SAPA in English 1840 GMT 1 Feb 94 MB0102192294 Johannesburg SAPA Language: English Article Type:BFN [embargoed by SAPA until 2200 GMT on 1 February] [Text] Johannesburg Feb 1 SAPA--State President F W de Klerk heads the National Party's [NP] list of candidates for the PWV [Pretoria, Witwatersrand, Vereeniging] region in the national assembly, according to the party's lists released on Wednesday. The top 10 names on the national assembly candidates list feature cabinet members Pik Botha, Roelf Meyer, Sam de Beer, Leon Wessels, Derek Keys, Jac Rabie and Piet Welgemoed. Deputy Ministers Theo Alant, Fanus Schoeman and Sheila Camerer are among the first 15. Two senior ministers on the national lists have opted to also be on the provincial lists--Kobie Coetsee and Amie Venter. Senior ministers who have opted for election to the national assembly include Dawie de Villiers (Western Cape), Kobie Coetsee ([Orange] Free State), Danie Schutte (Natal) and Amie Venter (northwest). Those topping the other regional national assembly lists include Tobie Meyer (Eastern Cape), Keppies Niemann (Northern Cape) and Chris Fismer (Eastern Transvaal). Senior ministers topping the lists for regional governments include Hernus Kriel (Western Cape), George Bartlett (Natal), Tertius Delport (Eastern Cape) and Kraai van Niekerk (Northern Cape). In releasing the names, State President de Klerk said the lists were "reasonably representative" of South Africa's population groups as well as of both sexes. Two provincial NP leaders said in statements that intimidation had played a role in reducing the number of blacks on the lists. Cape leader Dawie de Villiers said there were various Xhosa-speaking members of the party who were coerced by the current climate of violence and intimidation into withholding their candidature so as not to jeopardise their families' safety. This disturbing state of affairs had cast a shadow over the election. Natal leader George Bartlett said the party would have wished to have a greater number of black candidates, but fear of intimidation and an atmosphere of intolerance had a serious inhibiting effect.
