FBIS3-59231 "drweu019_p_94003" FBIS-WEU-94-019 Document Type:Daily Report 29 Jan 1994 GREECE Greek EC Presidency Favorably Assessed 94P2O279A Paris LIBERATION in French 18 Jan 94 p 4 94P2O279A Paris LIBERATION Language: French Article Type:CSO In an article in the 18 January Paris daily LIBERATION, Robert de Bruin, communications director for the French Banking Association, protests the damaging comments that greeted the Greek EC presidency and influenced West European political leaders, leading to the official recognition of the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia [FYROM]. True, Greeks are "often disconcerting" and have lacked "the gift of communication" on the Macedonian issue, de Bruin admits. Also, European "ambiguity" vis-a-vis modern Greece must be acknowledged. However, the Greek presidency ought to be seen as a "chance" for Europe, he argues. An Orthodox and Balkan country will preside over Europe at a time when the continent's political future will be defined by the relationship between the European Union [EU] and Orthodox Russia, as well as by the "boiling Balkan cauldron." To disregard Greece's opinion on Macedonia or contest its capability to lead the EU would be as ridiculous as deciding the future of Europe by "disregarding the Franco-German axis," de Bruin contends. Furthermore, a European Greece is an economic "chance" as well, he continues. While the press only speaks of a "lost economy" propped up by EC subsidies, a drachma zone is beginning to take shape in the Balkans; and even if the Greek currency is not very strong, Greece possesses a stable currency in the eyes of Romanians, Bulgarians, and Albanians. Finally, if it is "shameful" to take advantage of Brussels' subsidies, perhaps the European presidency ought to be denied to Ireland or Portugal, de Bruin comments. "Let us listen to Greece, for we have been lucky enough to have had as a European partner an Orthodox, Balkan Greece endowed with a per capita economic potential equal to Italy's," he concludes.
