FBIS4-67504 "jpten013___94027" JPRS-TEN-94-013 JPRS Environmental Issues 4 May 1994 CENTRAL EURASIA RUSSIA Norway's Berntsen on Komsomolets, Environmental Cooperation Norway's Berntsen on Komsomolets, Environmental Cooperation MK0405114094 Moscow KRASNAYA ZVEZDA in Russian 4 May 94 p 1 MK0405114094 Moscow KRASNAYA ZVEZDA Russian BFN [Aleksandr Yegorov report: ``Norwegian Minister Is Not Afraid of the Komsomolets''] [Text] A meeting has ended in Moscow between Viktor Danilov-Danilyan, Russian Federation minister of environmental protection and natural resources, and Thorbjorn Berntsen, Norwegian environment minister, pertaining to the widening of bilateral and multilateral cooperation in the field of environmental protection. The ministers stated at a press conference that they share the public concern over the threat of the Barents Sea region's being polluted by radioactive waste, its pollution from across the border by nickel-producing enterprises located in the border regions, and from accidents at nuclear facilities. They therefore think that it is necessary to carry out without delay cooperation projects planned by both sides, the most important among which is modernization of the Pechenganikel combine. In the final analysis, modernization is expected to result in cutting dioxin emissions to 40,000 tonnes against the 250,000 tonnes emitted in 1992. It was noted at the press conference that the combine reconstruction concept submitted by a consortium of two Norwegian firms and one Swedish firm has been recognized as the winner in an international contest for the right to develop it. The ``Norilsk Nickel'' concern together with the Russian Economy Ministry are currently preparing a draft government decree on financing the modernization taking account of the share provided by the Norwegian side (about $40 million). To the question on Norway's stance on an alleged plutonium leak from the damaged hull of the lost Komsomolets nuclear-powered submarine, Minister T. Berntsen answered: ``We keep a close watch on the situation. We are convinced that the submarine should not be disturbed needlessly. And there is no such need, our experts believe.''
