FBIS4-39926 "drsov113_a_94038" FBIS-SOV-94-113 Daily Report 10 Jun 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Russia, Czech Republic Resolve Debts Problem Russia, Czech Republic Resolve Debts Problem PM1006131194 Moscow IZVESTIYA in Russian 10 Jun 94 p 3 PM1006131194 Moscow IZVESTIYA Russian BFN [Boris Rodionov report: "Transfer Ruble Equated to Dollar Retrospectively. Russia To Pay Czech Republic 3.5 Billion By 2003"] [Excerpts] Moscow and Prague have reached agreement on the terms of the repayment of the Russian debts built up in the last years of the USSR's existence and inherited by Russia. [passage omitted] Russian Foreign Ministry circles are noting that this agreement is the result of a compromise brought about by the recent talks between [Czech premier] Klaus and Viktor Chernomyrdin. It makes it possible to galvanize Russo-Czech economic (and not only economic) ties -- something that both sides are interested in. For Prague in particular it is important, in comparison with Bratislava, to make up some ground in its Ostpolitik. The agreement between the Czech Republic and Russia may help to resolve the difficult problem of mutual financial claims between Russia and Poland and between Russian and Bulgaria. In these two cases it is a question both of the former USSR's debts to its partners, and of debts on the part of the partners themselves. And Moscow's dollar loans were kept secret. In the case of Poland, certain specialists believe, the zero option of a mutual write-off of the debt is possible. The extent to which it is necessary to dump the ballast of the past in favor of wide-ranging trading relations is shown by the example of Budapest. Hungary was the first of the former CEMA countries to settle the Soviet debt problem, accepting MiG-29 fighters and other military equipment as payment. In lieu of the outstanding sum -- $900 million -- the Hungarians intend to take part in the privatization of the Russian oil and gas complex and other enterprises. The agreement has cleared the way for the gradual restoration of trade and industrial ties, and Hungary now occupies first place in trade with Russia among all the former Soviet CEMA partners.
