FBIS4-17901 "drsov082_o_94001" FBIS-SOV-94-082 Daily Report 26 Apr 1994 Uzbekistan Mitterrand Stresses Resumption of `Ancient Ties' Mitterrand Stresses Resumption of `Ancient Ties' BR2604135194 Paris LE FIGARO in French 26 Apr 94 p 6 BR2604135194 Paris LE FIGARO French BFN [Report by special correspondent Paul Guilbert: "Uzbekistan: Francois Mitterrand Meets Six Centuries of History"] [Excerpts] Tashkent -- [passage omitted] In coming here, [French President] Mitterrand thinks it will be easier to straddle almost six centuries of history because, in the meantime, Uzbekistan itself had disappeared from the world political map. "We had not had relations for a long time," he said, "because Uzbekistan was not a sovereign country and the Uzbek people could not express themselves as such." The collapse of the USSR solved that. The French president's visit almost has the character of a historical reparation when Mitterrand states that it makes it possible "to update the very ancient ties between our two countries." At least President Mitterrand is the first Western head of state to visit Tashkent and, at a time when Uzbekistan (a sovereign country for five years and independent for three years) is urgently seeking an identity, this is significant: It is a unique diplomatic exercise which, according to protocol, merely returns the Uzbek president's visit to Paris last October. [passage omitted] But, on regaining its state, Uzbekistan has certainly not become the home of human rights: Oppositionists are in exile or in prison, and the press only prints the official truth. Moreover, Islam Karimov, who traded his title as first secretary of the Communist Party for that of president of the Republic, displays no democratic aspirations. His favorite word is stability. This robust Uzbek strode toward Mitterrand, confident of his power. About 10 French entrepreneurs, invited to launch the economic conquest of Uzbekistan, left the president's Concorde. Who knows? Mitterrand is dreaming of the metaphysical aim of his visit: his meditation at the tomb of Tamerlan [14th century amir] tomorrow evening in Samarkand.
