FBIS3-6207 "dreas050_d_94030" FBIS-EAS-94-050 Document Type:Daily Report 15 Mar 1994 South Korea DLP Lawmaker Denies Rumor on Forming New Party SK1503041894 Seoul YONHAP in English 0215 GMT 15 Mar 94 SK1503041894 Seoul YONHAP Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Seoul, March 15 (YONHAP) -- Rep. No Chae-pong of the ruling Democratic Liberal Party (DLP) lodged a strong protest with the Democratic Party [DP] Monday, slamming the DP's in-house report that he and another DLP lawmaker, Yi Chun-ku, planned to form a new political party. "Your report on current political trends is fictitious and untrue," No said in the protest note. "The Democratic Party has to take proper responsibility as a legitimate party for preparing and distributing a false report," No demanded. The DP's office of party affairs coordination submitted the report in question Monday to the party's governing Supreme Council. The report, forecasting the future of domestic politics, said that many ruling party members who were active in the administrations of Chon Tu-hwan and No Tae-u would bolt the DLP and form a new party They were already planning to do so in the belief that they would not receive party nominations for the next parliamentary elections in 1996 due to changes taking place in the DLP under President Kim Yong-sam's political strategy, the report said. No, former prime minister under No Tae-u, and Rep. Yi Chun-ku, former DLP secretary-general, planned to form a new party embracing disgruntled DLP members and former military officers purged in President Kim's anti-corruption drive, the report said. In his protest note, No said, "DP Chairman Yi Ki-taek, as the leader of the party, has to apologize not only to myself and Rep. Yi Chun-ku but also the Democratic Liberal Party, in which both of us are party postholders." Henceforth, the Democratic Party must try to maintain dignity and responsibility as a legitimate political party in dealing with public affairs of a similar nature, No said. There was no immediate reaction from Rep. Yi Chun-ku as he is currently visiting Germany. Officials at the Democratic Party, meanwhile, admitted that the two DLP lawmakers' honor could have been stained since their names were mentioned in an official paper. The party is looking into apologizing to the two men in the name of the director of the office of party affairs coordination, they said.
