FBIS3-51712 "drlat016_m_94001" FBIS-LAT-94-016 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Jan 1994 Brazil `Controversial' Piranha Missile Project Reactivated PY2401203794 Sao Paulo O ESTADO DE SAO PAULO in Portuguese 22 Jan 94 p B14 PY2401203794 Sao Paulo O ESTADO DE SAO PAULO Language: Portuguese Article Type:BFN [Article by Julio Ottoboni, from Sao Jose dos Campos] [Text] After more than eight years of its being dormant the Aeronautics Ministry has reactivated the controversial Piranha teleguided missile project, which had been suspended twice. The new contract was signed with Mectron Engenharia, a company headquartered in Sao Jose dos Campos, which is basically comprised of engineers trained at the Aeronautical Technology Institute (ITA). The Aeronautics Ministry has cloaked this project in secrecy. Despite this military sources told O ESTADO DE SAO PAULO that the ministry intends to develop several prototypes without delay, so that they can compete on the international market within 30 months. The federal government has acquiesced in appropriating $10 million for the project, as stipulated in the contract. Mectron Engenharia, which will be in charge of the development and tests of the prototype for the missiles, will work in cooperation with the Aerospace Technical Center (CTA). The Piranha (MAA-1) air-to-air missile will probably be assembled at Engesa [Specialized Engineers, Inc.], which has recently filed for bankruptcy. Engesa had enlarged its facilities to mass produce the Piranha missile during the eighties, and kept the necessary equipment. According to reports, 80 percent of the missile has already been manufactured. The Aeronautics Ministry intends to launch the Piranha missile on the international weapons market as a sophisticated and reasonably priced product compared to its competitors. While the prices of foreign models range between $120,000 and $250,000, the domestic missile will be sold at $100,000. Argentina's Condor missile, technologically inferior to the Piranha, is vying with the latter for that sales market. According to the same sources, the urgency in the reactivation of the missile project is due to the growing need for efficient weapons in air surveillance demanded by the Amazon Protection System (Sipam). The Armed Forces' supersonic fighter aircraft, Xavante and AMX, manufactured by Embraer [Brazilian Aeronautics Company], will be fitted with two Piranha air-to-air missiles on the wing tips. Furthermore, the Navy and the Army will have at their disposal versions of Piranha air-to-surface and surface-to-air missiles.
