FBIS3-52356 "drnes002_k_94006" FBIS-NES-94-002 Document Type:Daily Report 4 Jan 1994 IRAQ Radio Views Upcoming al-Asad-Clinton Summit JN0101111794 Baghdad Voice of Arab Syria in Arabic 0730 GMT 1 Jan 94 JN0101111794 Baghdad Voice of Arab Syria Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Unattributed feature: "Today's Talk"] [Text] Dear listeners, sons of our people in wounded Syria, and Arab brothers everywhere: On 16 January, Hafiz al-Asad and Bill Clinton will meet in Geneva to conclude a once-in-a-lifetime understanding between America and Hafiz al-Asad. Immediately following the Geneva meeting, Christopher or some other senior American official will begin shuttle trips between Damascus and Tel Aviv make arrangements for implementing the proposed agreement between al-Asad and Clinton in preparation for signing an agreement or peace and cooperation treaty between al-Asad and Rabin. These arrangements will include 1) coordinating bilateral talks in Washington; 2) raising the level of those negotiataing so that al-Shar' will meet with Shim'on Peres; 3) preparing for holding a summit meeting between al-Asad and Rabin in Cairo, Washington, or elsewhere; and 4) resorting to secret talks again in order to resolve the problems that cannot be solved in public bilateral talks. It seems that Hafiz al-Asad seeks an effective American role in the next talks. Why? He wants to achieve greater American sponsorship within the framework of his attempts to reinforce his local, regional, and international position, both on political and economic levels. He wants America to help him improve both his domestic and Arab image. He also wants America to guarantee the implementation of his coming agreement with the Zionist because, as he believes, America is an unbiased and effective mediator. He also believes that in the coming stage, America would give him a distinguished role, one higher than the position of other parties that held talks with the Zionist in Madrid and Washington, particularly the PLO. Hafiz al-Asad believes that through this approach, he will gain America, and if he gains America, he will receive some material and political privileges that he could not achieve through face-to-face talks with the Zionists; in other words, he wants to reach Israel via America, not the opposite. He also wants America alone to help him obtain European and Western assistance. Moreover, he wants America to help him obtain Gulf assistance and donations. This does not mean that eventually Hafiz al-Asad will not announce his (?submission to Zionism) which has become a fact, because his agreement with America and his concessions, for the sake of America, will be in the interest of Israel. Normalization is in the interest of Israel. Joint, bilateral, regional, and international cooperation on political, security, and economic levels is in the interest of Israel. Hafiz al-Asad is eager to gain what al-Sadat and Yasir 'Arafat have gained. He maneuvers, however, to achieve this over a longer period and for a higher price, or so he imagines.
