FBIS3-60550 "jptep002___94078" JPRS-TEP-94-002 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Epidemiology 13 January 1994 WEST EUROPE DENMARK Prosecutor: No Charges in HIV-Infected Blood Case 94WE0076J Copenhagen BERLINGSKE TIDENDE in Danish 19 Oct 93 p 5 94WE0076J Copenhagen BERLINGSKE TIDENDE Language: Danish Article Type:CSO [Ritzaus Bureau report: ``No Charges in Infection Case''--first paragraph is BERLINGSKE TIDENDE introduction] [Text] The public prosecutor has decided that there is no evidence to support bringing charges in the case in which 89 hemophiliacs were infected with HIV-tainted blood. Copenhagen Public Prosecutor Hanne Bech Hansen has decided not to charge former Interior Minister Britta Schall Holberg, former chief medical officer and chief of the Public Health Administration Soren K. Sorensen, and Public Health Administration department chief Jens Overo in the case of HIV-tainted hemophiliac medication. The public prosecutor found no evidence for bringing charges and this seems to exhaust the possibilities for the Danish Hemophiliac Society to hold anyone personally liable for the fact that 89 hemophiliacs were infected with HIV-tainted blood products in the mid-1980's. The Hemophiliac Society called the public prosecutor's decision ``sad, unfortunate, and incomprehensible.'' The society had reported the three for quackery, negligent manslaughter, and causing considerable damage to body and health. ``In order to prove that anyone is criminally liable it must be possible to establish that the hemophiliacs referred to in the report were given the infected blood after the three people named there became aware of the risk. ``There is no evidence in the case to establish this,'' the public prosecutor wrote the hemophiliac society in her decision. ``This decision is sad in many ways. Partly because we will probably never be able to assign personal responsibility and partly because in the future these three people will now be able to state that they had no responsibility. This will evoke strong feelings among hemophiliacs,'' said the chairman of the Danish Hemophiliac Society, Terkel Andersen. In her reasons for the rejection Hansen referred among other things to a judicial review of the case prepared by superior court judge Niels Johan Pedersen. But according to the hemophiliac society the review deals solely with the period after 1 January 1986, while the society's citation concerned the time before that. ``The review is exclusively descriptive as far as the period before 1 January 1986 is concerned--it was not part of the judge's commission to express an opinion about the course of events prior to that date,'' Andersen said.
