FBIS3-18237 "drweu040__a94017" FBIS-WEU-94-040-A Document Type:Daily Report 1 March 1994 ANNEX Switzerland EC's Matutes Criticizes Referendum on Transit Traffic AU2702213694 Zurich NEUE ZUERCHER ZEITUNG in German 25 Feb 94 p 13--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY AU2702213694 Zurich NEUE ZUERCHER ZEITUNG Language: German Article Type:BFN ["cs." report: "What is the Transit Agreement Worth?"] [Text] Abel Matutes, European Union (EU) commissioner responsible for traffic questions, regards the positive referendum on the Alpine initiative as a violation of the spirit of the transit agreement. Matutes commented on the result of the referendum at a news conference on pan-European traffic conference in Crete in mid-March. The traffic commissioner admitted that Switzerland's decision of Sunday [20 February] was made in conjunction with EU traffic principles as laid down in the green book. However, it is incompatible with the transit agreement concluded between the EU and Switzerland. From his point of view, this will not change if Switzerland affirms that it desires to keep its international commitments. Matutes commented on the result of the referendum at a news conference on theserious circumstance which turns out to be even more serious when analyzed on a long-term basis. What is an agreement worth if a referendum can be held and it can be overruled anytime, Matutes asked. For the Spaniard Matutes, the referendum is casting a shadow on future EU negotiations with Switzerland. The commission was instructed to check the consequences of the referendum in detail -- particularly with a view to bilateral traffic negotiations. According to Matutes they might now be jeopardized. The transportation commissioner similarly assesses the aviation agreement situation. According to Matutes, the substance of the mandate for traffic negotiations that the transportation ministers originally wanted to adopt in mid-April must be revised. The referendum will also affect air traffic negotiations, he said. However, nothing is currently impossible, everything must be thoroughly considered now. Matutes is worried most about discrimination on the part of EU transporters. Discrimination is not acceptable, he said. He also insisted on freedom of movement for goods and persons. Matutes recalled that in the negotiations with Switzerland a global balance is sought and one does not want to confine oneself to one point. However, the result of the referendum has changed the possibilities, he said. The transportation commissioner hopes that he will be able to discuss alternatives with Federal Councilor Ogi at the conference in Crete, in order to find a way out of the dead end. He is banking, among other things, on the political abilities of the Swiss transportation minister, he said.
