FBIS4-19963 "drweu079_a_94003" FBIS-WEU-94-079 Daily Report 22 Apr 1994 AUSTRIA Editorial Views Vranitzky's Talks With Clinton Editorial Views Vranitzky's Talks With Clinton AU2204151794 Vienna DIE PRESSE in German 22 Apr 94 p 1 AU2204151794 Vienna DIE PRESSE German BFN [Editorial by Thomas Chorherr: "Balance Sheet of a Visit"] [Text] Chancellor Vranitzky's visit to the United States may not have taken place at the best of times. The world political events may have stolen his show and developments at home may have ruined his mood. The fact that CNN switched from a photograph of Bill Clinton and the Austrian chancellor to the president's news conference is only a weak consolation, or is it not? In fact, Bosnia was discussed during Vranitzky's visit to the White House, which was also the topic if Clinton's subsequent news conference. However, the way Clinton commented on Bosnia and what has happened since then shows in an impressive manner that he still has not realized what is happening in the Balkans. When asked, Vranitzky gave a diplomatic reply, as is right and proper for a visitor. However, there is no need for us to be diplomatic. The President tried to convince his compatriots via the media and the world via CNN that a civil war is going on in Bosnia. He repeatedly stressed that a "civil war" is taking place there. Yet this is not true. We are not witnessing a civil war among members of the same nation. It is a war between different ethnic groups, states, and religions. If Clinton wrongly speaks of a civil war, he is evoking a trauma that the Americans have not overcome since 1865 -- for good reason. At the same time, he also asked for understanding for Washington's hesitant attitude. "Not interfering" is the motto, which would be justified if a civil war were really involved. What Clinton had to offer was a stalling policy. An international conference on Bosnia is to be held -- as early as in four weeks -- according to Yeltsin's wishes. A state will no longer exist by that time, but there will be a winner who can rightly claim that he won against the whole world. If Vranitzky tried to explain this, his visit was a failure in this respect. If he failed to do so, he should have stayed at home.
