FBIS3-8282 "dreeu045_c_94007" FBIS-EEU-94-045 Document Type:Daily Report 8 Mar 1994 CZECH REPUBLIC Complains About Army Cooperation AU0703144794 Prague LIDOVE NOVINY in Czech 3 Mar 94 pp 1, 12 AU0703144794 Prague LIDOVE NOVINY Language: Czech Article Type:BFN [Article by "(gag)": "The Engineers' Ambitions and Plans Are in Contrast to the Army's Dilatoriness"] [Text] Prague--The 40 companies affiliated in the RDP Group now account for 60 percent of arms production in the Czech Republic, said Jan Vlcek, the consortium's director general, to reporters. Coordinating production, pooling resources and capacities, and importing advanced technologies are not the consortium's only aims; it is also interested in offering to quickly and economically reaarm the Czech Army with equipment compatible with that of NATO. In reply to a question on how the RDP Group Board explains the inactive cooperation with the Army, the director general of LIAZ, Jablonec, said the following at yesterday's news conference: "We are still seeking our place in relation to the state institutions; apart from this, the Army is going through comprehensive transformation, which also involves conceptual changes in procuring equipment. There is a dialogue between us. Otherwise, it is impossible--armies throughout the world have an important position with regard to domestic industry. After all, it is financed from the state budget and from taxpayers' money." Modernizing weapons and logistics, new types of wheeled vehicles (from a jeep that is being tested by the Interior Ministry to heavy tractors), a modular system of hand weapons, antitank missiles, intelligent ammunition, and effective communications systems are among the RDP Group's key projects. The RDP Group would like to discuss its projects with the Army in the next few days. The director general of Avia Praha, which will manufacture 200 special jeep-type all-terrain vehicles this year, said that the Army still does not have a rearmament program, which has a severe affect on the development and production capacity of the engineering enterprises. "The concept for the Army's rearmament was made public in the middle of last year, with the proviso that it should be ready in January," added Director Vlcek. "However, it will not be submitted until the second half of the year, and then only in general form." According to Vlcek, this is a common problem between a businessman and a customer. Apparently, what is worse is that the RDP Group is losing out on a qualified expert in the Defense Ministry, with which it could be holding talks.
