FBIS3-40663 "jpnea005___94047" JPRS-NEA-94-005 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Near East & South Asia INDIA: Press Reaction to GATT Signing INDIA 2 February 1994 SOUTHERN REGION Congress Parliamentary Party Discusses Dunkel 94AS0121A Madras INDIAN EXPRESS in English 17 Dec 93 p 1 94AS0121A Madras INDIAN EXPRESS Language: English Article Type:CSO [Unattributed article: "CPP Meet To Discuss Dunkel"] [Text] New Delhi -- Prime Minister P.V. Narasimha has summoned a meeting of the Congress Parliamentary Party on Friday as part of efforts to contain the Dunkel fall-out within the ruling party. The CPP [Congress(I) Parliamentary Party] general body called at short notice will be addressed both by the Prime Minister and the Commerce Minister Pranab Mukherjee on the implications of the Dunkel agreement. The move to call the CPP is aimed at pre-empting criticism from within. Rumblings within the party on the sensitive issue were, however, evident when several members demanded that they be allowed to speak at Friday's general body meeting. Among those who claimed to have sent notice for speaking to the CPP secretariat are Jagmeet Singh Brar and S.S. Surjewala. CPP secretary Vilas Muthemwar said that members who wished to speak would be allowed, time permitting. The meeting is scheduled to last 90 minutes. As per the game-plan prepared by Rao managers, the Prime Minister after taking party MPs [Member of Parliament] into confidence would intervene in the on-going discussion in Parliament. On Thursday the Prime Minister avoided Parliament ostensibly because he was busy with the education summit. AICC [All India Congress Committee-I] spokesman Vithal N. Gadgil when grilled by reporters for the party's stand on the GATT [General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade] agreement said that the party supported the Government's decision taking the "realities" into account. "Certain realities have to be taken into account," he said. The spokesman rejected the possibility of the President Shankar Dayal Sharma being kept in the dark, and pointed out that every Cabinet paper was routinely sent to him.
