FBIS4-59370 "drnes093_k_94001" FBIS-NES-94-093 Daily Report 12 May 1994 IRAQ 'Aziz: Talks With Security Council President `Fruitful' 'Aziz: Talks With Security Council President `Fruitful' JN1205190294 Baghdad Republic of Iraq Radio Network in Arabic 1800 GMT 12 May 94 JN1205190294 Baghdad Republic of Iraq Radio Network Arabic BFN [Text] Deputy Prime Minister Tariq 'Aziz held a meeting with Ibrahim Gambari, the Security Council's president and Nigeria's UN representative, at the United Nations headquarters today, Thursday, morning. Following the 40-minute meeting, 'Aziz told reporters that he discussed with the Security Council's president issues related to the council's resolutions in light of Iraq's fulfillment of its commitments stipulated in these resolutions. 'Aziz added: The meeting was fruitful. I explained to the council's president Iraq's position, which strongly demands that the council acknowledge the facts showing that Iraq has implemented a great deal of the council's resolutions, and that concerned UN circles have confirmed these facts in their reports. The deputy prime minister said the tendency of some Security Council members to fail to acknowledge this reality is the wrong approach and that the council should rectify this matter. 'Aziz said the refusal by one member to acknowledge this reality will harm the Security Council's credibility and the legitimacy of its resolutions. Asked about the U.S. and British positions on Iraq, 'Aziz said: When the dispute began, they told the council and the whole world that they did not have bilateral differences with Iraq, that they behaved according to the bases of international law, and that they prepared Security Council resolutions to address the issue on this basis. However, if they change their position four years later and say that the issue is not within the United Nations' terms of reference, and that it only has to do with their policy, then this is something different, which means the entire issue has changed. They should determine whether they are abiding by the resolutions, which they wrote themselves, or whether they used these resolutions to achieve a political purpose of their own.
