FBIS3-44081 "drafr016_d_94001" FBIS-AFR-94-016 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Jan 1994 SOUTHERN AFRICA Angola Update on Events at Talks; No Accord on Principles MB2401201694 Luanda Radio Nacional Network in Portuguese 1900 GMT 24 Jan 94 MB2401201694 Luanda Radio Nacional Network Language: Portuguese Article Type:BFN [Text] The Angolan peace talks continue in Lusaka, Zambia. No agreement has been reached on specific principles on forming the national police at today's meeting. Pedro Maneul reports. Good evening. The government and the National Union for the Total Independence of Angola [UNITA] have not yet reached agreement on specific principles. The main document from the mediators and observers was readjusted during separate meetings held this morning. These readjustments, called coordination of language, should have been finished late this afternoon [words indistinct] mediators submitted documents to be examined by the negotiating teams. We say the readjustments should have been finished late this afternoon, because this information has not yet been confirmed due to the press blackout [preceding word in English]. The readjustments would have transformed the document by the mediators into a final text, since this would come after the the negotiating teams replied to the document that UN's Alioune Blondin Beye presented to them last Thursday [20 January]. On that occasion, the document was already known as a proposal from the mediators and observers for the final discussion of specific principles. But since a proposal is just a proposal, replies can either be positive or negative. Thus, some readjustments have been suggested. Now, some sources say that the [words indistinct] intermediary stand of the mediators and observers on specific principles. The sources say that with this stand the negotiators should propose signing an agreement on the principles under discussion. Sources say this agreement could be reached tomorrow, if UNITA does not complicate issues further. The government has always said yes to proposals by the mediators and observers.
