FBIS3-12915 "drnes045dd_94006" FBIS-NES-94-045 Document Type:Daily Report 8 Mar 1994 Palestinian Affairs Al-Yahya: 'Arafat, Negotiators To Meet in Cairo JN0703135394 Amman AL-RA'Y in Arabic 7 Mar 94 p 28 JN0703135394 Amman AL-RA'Y Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [By 'Awdah 'Awdah; all quotation marks as published] [Excerpt] Major General 'Abd-al-Razzaq al-Yahya, deputy head of the Palestinian delegation and chairman of the Security Committee in the self-rule negotiations, has said that "a meeting will be held in Cairo this week between President 'Arafat and the Palestinian delegation to the self-rule negotiations to assess the most recent phase of negotiations and lay the main guidelines for a new negotiating strategy." In an exclusive statement to AL-RA'Y in Amman one hour before departing for Cairo yesterday morning, Maj. Gen. al-Yahya added that "in view of the Ibrahimi Mosque massacre, it has been necessary to reconsider the Palestinian negotiating strategy." He said that "suspending the negotiations does not mean ending them but temporarily stopping them to conduct a comprehensive study in light of recent developments, reports by the Palestinian envoys in Paris, London, and Washington, and a possible Security Council resolution." Maj. Gen. al-Yahya, who was commander-in-chief of the Palestine Liberation Army, added that "negotiations are the only way to achieve the Israeli withdrawal from Gaza Strip and the Jericho area, but we need new concepts." Asked about moving the Palestinian-Israeli negotiations to Washington, al-Yahya said that "the main factor is not the venue of negotiations but the real attitude toward implementing the Declaration of Principles without any obstacles, particularly on the part of the Israeli side." He added that "moving the negotiations to Washington poses no problem for the Palestinian side. If the negotiations resume, we hope that the final results will be achieved in the shortest possible time." Al-Yahya revealed that "the Ibrahimi Mosque massacre deferred an "urgent meeting" which the Palestinian-Israeli Security Coordination Committee was about to hold to explore the Israeli withdrawal and make arrangements for the Palestinian police entry to the Jericho area and Gaza Strip and their deployment and duties." [passage omitted]
