FBIS3-32805 "drlat031_q_94002" FBIS-LAT-94-031 Document Type:Daily Report 15 Feb 1994 Paraguay Minister Warns Peasants Against `Adventures' PY1202155894 Asuncion ABC COLOR in Spanish 12 Feb 94 p 2 PY1202155894 Asuncion ABC COLOR Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Excerpt] On 11 February Paraguayan Interior Minister Carlos Podesta was asked at Government House whether the peasants of Tava'i Borda had been found to be armed. The minister answered: "We found no military weapons." He stated that leftist activists are operating in Tava'i Borda. He added: "I am warning my fellow countrymen, the peasants, not to participate in adventures at the invitation of some enthusiastic people, because most probably, at the time of truth, those enthusiastic people will be nowhere near the front line... I want to reiterate that according to information on hand, to the investigation we conducted, and to what we actually found, the peasants will not last five minutes in a battle." The minister stressed that he "does not want any innocent victims." Podesta stated: "The leftists are there," adding that "there is nothing wrong with that.... It is no longer a sin to be a leftist." He went on to say that "it is still a sin, however, for leftists, rightists, centrists, people from above or below, to advocate breaking the law. It cannot be tolerated." The minister indicated that sometimes the leftists, as well as other groups, advocate breaking the law. He did not specify which other groups. Podesta said: "Sometimes we tend to forget the rules of the game and if we find these rules inappropriate we have a democratic congress which we can ask to amend the law. Until the laws are amended they must be complied with. The law must be obeyed." Podesta admitted that the state does not have a representative in Tava'i Borda, adding that state supervision is not good, nor should it last forever. He explained that the settling of the area began in 1989 "amid general approval, but nobody could have imagined that peasants would be expelling other peasants. Furthermore the administration was unable to provide the followup support to guarantee the success of the settlement." The minister added that a state emergency program is under way to help the peasants. He announced that a permanent and broader plan will be implemented later. [passage omitted]
