FBIS4-24110 "drafr122_e_94001" FBIS-AFR-94-122 Daily Report 23 Jun 1994 WEST AFRICA Liberia Unknown Group Launches Sea Raid on ECOMOG Unknown Group Launches Sea Raid on ECOMOG AB2306221094 London BBC World Service in English 1705 GMT 23 Jun 94 AB2306221094 London BBC World Service English BFN [From the "Focus on Africa" program] [Text] The skirmishing in Liberia seems to go on every day without a break. ULIMO [United Liberation Movement for Democracy in Liberia], Charles Taylor's NPFL [National Patriotic Front of Liberia], the ECOMOG [Economic Community of West African States Cease-Fire Monitoring Group] peacekeeping force, all seem to be involved in shoot-outs in various parts of the country. Now an unknown group has tried to launch a raid by sea on Monrovia. From Monrovia, Nii Nartey Allison telexed this report. According to a spokesman for the African peacekeeping force, more than 100 people suspected of trying to launch a nighttime seaborne attack on their headquarters on Tuesday [21 June] had been arrested. Details surrounding the incident remain scanty, but the spokesman for the peacekeepers, Major Edema Syllo today confirmed that some of the suspects had escaped after a heavy exchange of gunfire with the peacekeepers' gunboat which had moved in from the nearby Free Port of Monrovia. He said that those arrested are still being interrogated and that their identity had not yet been established. Maj. Syllo said about the same time as the seaborne attack, a formation of peacekeeping troops in the Harbel area had come under fire from fighters of Charles Taylor's NPFL. On the ULIMO front, he said that peacekeeping troops had moved into Brewerville late on Wednesday [22 June] after a fierce gun battle in the area between rival ULIMO factions. He added: Seven bodies were discovered in a well there. Meanwhile, the field commander of the African peacekeeping force, Maj. General John Inienger, today expressed his objections to warring factions using Monrovia as a base for their propaganda and for operations. He said: If they go on, this could lead to a legal and military problem for ECOMOG under the Cotonou Accord.
