FBIS3-2302 "drchi045_w_94004" FBIS-CHI-94-045 Document Type:Daily Report 8 Mar 1994 HONG KONG & MACAO Hong Kong Trade Department Foresees Major Losses If MFN Revoked HK0803051694 Hong Kong SOUTH CHINA MORNING POST in English 8 Mar 94 p 1 HK0803051694 Hong Kong SOUTH CHINA MORNING POST Language: English Article Type:BFN [By Amy Chew] [Text] Hong Kong stands to lose up to $187 billion, or nine percent of its yearly trade, if China's Most Favoured Nation (MFN) status is withdrawn this year. The territory's re-exports from China to the United States, which account for 60 percent of total exports to the country, would suffer a loss of up to $77 billion, or 46 percent, according to the latest assessment from the Trade Department. "A reduction of up to $77 billion worth of re-exports is double the impact we estimated in 1990," the department's deputy director-general, Christopher Jackson, said. "This is largely the result of the very rapid growth in Hong Kong's re-export of China-made goods to the United States over the past few years," he said. The loss of MFN would see tariff rates in China increase by two to 10 times, according to the department's principal economist Cheung Hok-ying. Mr Jackson said the figures did not take into account China retaliating against the U.S. by restricting the number of American products coming into China. "However, in this area, Hong Kong is less vulnerable. Only 30 percent of U.S. exports to China travel through Hong Kong," he said. While outlining the potential loss to Hong Kong's economy, Mr Jackson said: "No community is more concerned about human rights then Hong Kong but the issue, in this context, is a matter between the U.S. and China. "For Hong Kong, our message remains focused on the impact, or economic damage, that the MFN withdrawal will have on Hong Kong." This is the same message the Government will present in Washington as part of its lobbying efforts to have China retain MFN status. Hong Kong's role as a gateway to China was also likely to be undermined, thus affecting longer-term growth potential and business confidence. Manufacturing investment ventures and other production arrangements by Hong Kong and foreign companies in China, including American firms, were likely to suffer significantly. Mr Jackson said related trade flows, such as the import of raw material to Hong Kong and into China and other countries, could hurt Hong Kong's trade by as much as nine percent. Other areas which would take a blow were transport storage, banking, finance, insurance and many other areas of the service sector which supported Hong Kong's role as an entrepot. The chairman of the American Chamber of Commerce, Gerry Murdock, said MFN status had become the most important issue in Sino-U.S. relations. "And this should not be the case," he said. U.S.-China relations should move beyond this point.
