FBIS3-41957 "jptnd001__l94034" JPRS-TND-94-001-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:PROLIFERATION ISSUES 31 January 1994 WEST EUROPE GERMANY Integrated Radioactivity Control System Developed BR2312134993 Berlin ETZ in German No 21, Nov 93 p 1346 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY BR2312134993 Berlin ETZ Language: German Article Type:BFN [First paragraph is ETZ introduction] [Text] If radioactivity is released in the event of an accident in a nuclear plant, accurate information as to the amount and spread of radiation is extremely important. Radioactivity knows no frontiers, so monitoring systems must operate on an international scale. The Russian Federation is acquiring a system of this type, integrated into a system already in place in Germany. Data Exchange Via Satellite Rapid, standardized, transregional radioactivity data exchange is of particular importance in the event of an accident and requires a modern information and communications infrastructure and regular practice in operating it. There have been several facilities in Russia measuring radioactivity to date, all working on their own, but a unified information system for recording and assessing the data acquired will now improve cooperation among them. The Federal Ministry of the Environment, Nature Conservation, and Reactor Safety (BMU) has commissioned German Aerospace AG to install a modern radioactivity metering and information system. IRIS (integrated radioactivity information system) is being set up for the Russian Ministry of the Environment and Natural Resources. In the first phase of the project, parameters collected and tested in the area surrounding the nuclear power station near Smolensk will be transferred to a central post in Moscow, where they will be processed and used to draw up radiological maps. As Germany has an interest in obtaining accurate information as early as possible in the event of accidents at Russian nuclear plants, the data will be transmitted to the Federal Republic via satellite and fed into the German information system. The IRIS metering network planned for Russia is based on the IMIS integrated metering and information system in Germany. After the Chernobyl reactor disaster, the BMU commissioned Dornier GmbH to create the user software for the system in 1988. Radiation Metering System for Europe IMIS is an early warning system designed to minimize exposure to radiation following incidents involving the release of radioactivity. A program system that uses models to calculate the level of contamination in the water, soil, and air has been incorporated to assess the impact on the population. The calculations are used in conjunction with a catalog of measures from which the appropriate recommendations and instructions may be derived. The system comprises the following main functions: -- measurement of radioactivity in environmental samples; -- monitoring of environmental radioactivity in the air, soil, and water over large areas; -- compilation, presentation, and assessment of radioactivity parameters; -- dispatch of instructions and recommendations to the authorities concerned, and -- information exchange among the authorities responsible. The methods of linking and coordinating different metering facilities and networks devised for IMIS can be used for other environment protection operations, primarily waterway monitoring and soil conservation, as well. Cross-border environmental problems call for information technology solutions using supraregional systems. Being of a decentralized nature, the integration of heterogeneous networks run by different organizations constitutes an ideal model for an integrated European environmental information system. IMIS systems of this type are already undergoing trials in the Czech and Slovak republics.
