FBIS3-34188 "drnes024_s_94003" FBIS-NES-94-024 Document Type:Daily Report 4 Feb 1994 Iran Authorities Admit to Disturbances in Southeast PM0402103594 London AL-HAYAH in Arabic 3 Feb 94 pp1, 4 PM0402103594 London AL-HAYAH Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Safa Ha'iri report: "Sectarian Disturbances in Baluchistan; Fatalities in Iran after Confrontations with the `Guards'] [Text] Paris -- The Iranian authorities yesterday admitted the occurrence of disturbances in the province of Baluchistan southeast of the country and accused "counterrevolutionary elements" of organizing these disturbances the day before yesterday. According to media reports, these disturbances resulted in numerous casualties, including dead and wounded. According to several sources, the disturbances in Zahedan began after rumors that the authorities had demolished a Sunni mosque in the town of Mashhad northeast of Iran triggering fear among observers that the disturbances might assume a sectarian dimension. Observers say that news of the disturbances coincided with the shooting incident as President Hashemi-Rafsanjani was delivering a speech during the celebrations marking the 15th anniversary of the Islamic revolution. They note that the two incidents indicate that the regime is going through a difficult phase. It has been reported from Zahedan that forces of the "Revolutionary Guards" clashed with demonstrators who occupied government buildings, removed the flags from them, and destroyed military vehicles belong to the Revolutionary Guards. The clashes lasted four hours and resulted in the death of dozens of demonstrators and the injury of no less that 400 others. The demonstrators used sticks and stones and the Revolutionary Guards responded with tear gas bombs and gunfire in the direction of the demonstrators. Eyewitnesses say that the clashes began when forces of the Revolutionary Guards stormed a mosque where worshippers were listening to antiregime speeches after hearing the news of the demolition of the Sunni mosque in Mashhad. They add that the mosque as well as buildings and shops in the Khayyam street, where the clashes were concentrated, sustained material damage. In a statement to AL-HAYAH, informed sources expressed fear that the Zahedan incidents could be serious in view of the fact that the province is adjacent to the Pakistani borders and the fact that they occurred after the authorities reinforced their forces on these borders. Some media organs close to the regime have recently stressed the need to "foil the terrorist acts which the enemies of the revolution were preparing to perpetrate in Baluchistan." The same sources also drew attention to the Foreign Ministry's reaction to the disturbances as "a plot hatched by counterrevolutionaries with foreign links." The ministry's statement spoke of the arrest of a number of demonstrators but the sources were unable to say how many were arrested.
