FBIS3-49822 "dreeu011_y_94003" FBIS-EEU-94-011 Document Type:Daily Report 18 Jan 1994 YUGOSLAVIA Federal TANJUG Notes Clinton Remarks on Bosnia LD1501114694 Belgrade TANJUG in English 1104 GMT 15 Jan 94 LD1501114694 Belgrade TANJUG Language: English Article Type:BFN ["Clinton: Sending of Troops to Bosnia Would be Sheer Folly" -- TANJUG headline] [Text] Moscow, January 15 (TANJUG) -- United States (U.S.) President Bill Clinton has said that his country was not sending troops to the former Yugoslav republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina, nor did it want to seize territories, because that would be sheer folly. A civil war of its three constitutive peoples -- Moslems, Serbs and Croats -- has been raging in Bosnia-Herzegovina since April 1992. Clinton on Friday evening [14 January] told Russian television that the U.S. supported Bosnian Moslems because it supports the multi-national government of Bosnia-Herzegovina which is recognized by the United Nations. Clinton, however, immediately added that his country knew that the Bosnian Government included mostly Moslem elements. The U.S. supports the U.N. mission and wants the bloodshed of people in Bosnia-Herzegovina to end, the U.S. President said. There are no more legally elected representatives of Bosnian Serbs or Bosnian Croats in the authorities of Bosnia-Herzegovina. They walked out of all legal organs because Bosnian Moslems, violating the constitutionally established equality of the three peoples, want to enforce their domination. The Serbs were the first to leave the Bosnian leadership because the Moslem-Croat authorities asked for the recognition of the independence of Bosnia-Herzegovina without their approval, although the Constitution specifically said that major decisions can be adopted only on the grounds of consensus among the three peoples. Disagreeing with the insistence of Bosnian Moslem leader Alija Izetbegovic on a unitary Bosnia-Herzegovina in which his fellow Moslems and Islam would dominate, Bosnian Serbs and Bosnian Croats have proclaimed their own state communities -- the Serb republic and the Croatian republic of Herzeg-Bosna, respectively.
