FBIS4-22718 "jpusr044___94045" FBIS-USR-94-044 JPRS FBIS Report: Central Eurasia 1 April 1994 RUSSIA REGIONAL AFFAIRS St Petersburg News St Petersburg News Sobchak on Crime Crackdown 944F0559B St. Petersburg NEVSKOYE VREMYA in Russian 1 Apr 94 p 1 944F0559B St. Petersburg NEVSKOYE VREMYA Russian CSO [Article by Dmitriy Statsenko: "What Did Sobchak Mean?"] [Text] Appearing on TV on 29 March, Mayor of St. Petersburg Anatoliy Sobchak announced that the law enforcement organs, with support from the military, would shortly mount an extensive offensive against the criminal underworld. What did our mayor mean? In the words of GUVD [Main Directorate of Internal Affairs] Chief Arkadiy Kramarev, it is indeed planned to conduct a special operation similar to "Signal-2" this spring (the beginning date of the operation has already been determined, but it is an official secret). The internal troops of the Northwestern District of the Internal Troops of the Russian Federation Ministry of Internal Affairs and assets of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Russia will be used in the operation. The chief of the Main Directorate did not know whether Sobchak meant this operation when he declared a war on organized crime. The staff of Lieutenant General Leonid Chervotkin, commander of the Northwestern District of the Internal Troops of the Russian Federation Ministry of Internal Affairs, explained to our correspondent that the Internal Troops have always provided support for the militia in combating violations of law, and will do so in the future. However, they have nothing to do with the army because they belong to the organization of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. In the opinion of the commander's adjutant, the mayor's words on "support from the military" most likely refer to the army. They could not give us an intelligible answer at the Leningrad Military District, either. Nonetheless, it came out in a conversation with Vladimir Balonkin, chief of the press center of the Leningrad Military District, that our military district does not intend to assign any military units to combat crime because the tasks of the military are different.
