FBIS3-17952 "drsov062_m_94001" FBIS-SOV-94-062 Document Type:Daily Report 30 Mar 1994 Tajikistan Peacekeeping Forces General Says Republic Needs No Army LD3003191494 Moscow INTERFAX in English 1823 GMT 30 Mar 94 LD3003191494 Moscow INTERFAX Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] The commander of the CIS peacekeeping force in Tajikistan said he saw no reasons for Tajikistan to have an army of its own. "Large-scale aggression against Tajikistan is out of the question, although groups of 50 to 200 men might try to break into the territory of the Republic, hoping to get support from groups within (Tajikistan) and pursuing political aims," Colonel-General Boris Pyankov told reporters in Dushanbe on Wednesday. He said he was sure the 15 April deadline for the peacekeepers' presence in Tajikistan would be moved to 31 December. Pyankov said all financial and other problems the Commonwealth force initially faced had been solved. He said Russia was paying 50 percent of the expenditure for the peacekeepers, Uzbekistan and Kazakhstan were paying 15 percent each, and Tajikistan and Kyrgyzstan 10 percent each. The general said Tajikistan's leadership wished the force to be enlarged and that it might suggest that Armenia, Ukraine and Belarus send in reinforcements. But he doubted that Belarus would send in any troops, its legislation banning the use of its armed forces outside its territory. Pyankov on the whole expressed approval of the idea of having more CIS states involved in the peacekeeping mission, for this would "eliminate all mistrust and give the lie to the accusations that Russia acts as an imperial power." He said the initiative for giving the peacekeepers the status of a U.N. force had nearly been killed off, the United Nations being unable to fund it. But Russia is ready to pay for its peacekeepers anywhere in the CIS if the United Nations recognizes those expenses as Russia's payments for U.N. peacekeeping missions, Pyankov said. He said a proposal to that effect might be made to U.N. secretary General Butrus Butrus-Ghali, currently visiting Moscow.
