FBIS4-42443 "drweu107_j_94011" FBIS-WEU-94-107 Daily Report 2 Jun 1994 ITALY & VATICAN CITY Leaflets Threaten Scalfaro, Berlusconi Leaflets Threaten Scalfaro, Berlusconi BR0206113294 Rome LA REPUBBLICA in Italian 2 Jun 94 p 15 BR0206113294 Rome LA REPUBBLICA Italian BFN [Unattributed report: "Red Brigade Leaflets Against Scalfaro and Berlusconi in Genoa"] [Text] Genoa -- Five leaflets signed by a self-styled "Armed Group for the Proletarian Revolution -- New Walter Alasia Column" were found yesterday morning in Genoa, in the Sampierdarena section, a stone's throw from the place where the Red Brigades murdered two Carabinieri, Tosa and Battaglin. The leaflets contained heavy threats against President Oscar Luigi Scalfaro, Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, National Alliance [AN] leader Gianfranco Fini, and League leader Umberto Bossi. Death threats were also addressed to CGIL [Italian General Confederation of Labor] Secretary General Bruno Trentin, and PDS [Democratic Party of the Left] Secretary Achille Occhetto. The document, which was most probably written with an electronic typewriter and then photocopied, is currently being examined by the DIGOS [Division for General Investigations and Special Operations]. Is it some sort of provocation? Possibly, but the police are not dismissing the very real possibility of a new terrorist flare-up. The leaflets' presence in Via Rolando, in Sampierdarena, was reported to the police by passers-by who noticed two of the five leaflets affixed -- at eye level -- to the front of a house. The other three leaflets were glued to a paper-collecting container. An eye-catching five-point star was displayed on the upper left-hand side of the leaflets. The five-point star is BR's [Red Brigades] "historical" symbol on which, however, the outline of a submachine gun was superimposed. Around this, in a radiating pattern, was the "signature" of the self-styled "armed group." According to the leaflet, it is "the oppressive and exploitative state structure" which justifies the resumption of armed struggle. This includes executing Trentin and Occhetto, who are accused of "collaboration with the counterrevolutionaries and the bosses' clique," as well as of "sabotaging proletarian actions." The "New Walter Alasia Column" pronounces the same sentence on Bossi and Berlusconi, who are targeted "because they are enemies of the working class and of its armed organization," and on Fini and Scalfaro, in that they are considered adherents of party organizations which openly support neofascist ideology.
