FBIS3-5292 "dreas044_a_94018" FBIS-EAS-94-044 Document Type:Daily Report 7 March 1994 NORTHEAST ASIA Japan Hosokawa Faces Lawsuit on Reform Bill Compromise OW0603100894 Tokyo KYODO in English 0955 GMT 6 Mar 94 OW0603100894 Tokyo KYODO Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Miyazaki, March 6 KYODO -- A former Fair Trade Commission (FTC) inspector intends to file a lawsuit Monday [7 March] against Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa for allegedly violating the Constitution through a compromise over political reform bills in January. The former FTC official, Taro Kayashima, 68, will file the suit at the Miyazaki district court against Hosokawa, opposition Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) President Yohei Kono and speaker of the House of Representatives Takako Doi. Kayashima is seeking a total of 3 million yen from the three and the government as compensation for the damage which he said was inflicted by the compromise via a backdoor deal. The government-proposed political reform bills were initially rejected in the House of Councillors and the likelihood of enactment became slim because of disagreement over compromise between representatives of the two Diet chambers. Doi, however, proposed her own conciliatory plan to Hosokawa and Kono, and the two men took advantage of the proposal as a chance to reach an accord in a backroom meeting. Kayashima claims the actions taken by Doi, Hosokawa and Kono violated the Constitution. The plaintiff alleges that Hosokawa, as leader of the government, intervened in deliberations in the conference committee of both houses. Hosokawa allegedly violated separation of the administrative, legislature and judicial branches of the government, thus damaging trust in parliamentary democracy, Kayashima said. In addition, Kayashima claims infringement on his liberty to support a political party because the political reform bills guarantee designated parties to receive public financial assistance paid through taxes. The upper house on Friday made into law political reform package amendments which feature changes in the lower house's election system and revised regulations on corporate donations to political fund-raising organizations.
