FBIS4-19346 "drweu074_h_94009" FBIS-WEU-94-074 Daily Report 15 Apr 1994 GERMANY Kanther Announces Closer Watch on Republikaner Kanther Announces Closer Watch on Republikaner AU1504123294 Munich SUEDDEUTSCHE ZEITUNG in German 15 Apr 94 p 1 AU1504123294 Munich SUEDDEUTSCHE ZEITUNG German BFN ["mes"-signed report: "Kanther Wants To Observe Republikaner More Closely"] [Excerpt] Bonn -- The Federal Office for the Protection of the Constitution [BfV] is to observe the right-wing extremist Republikaner more closely. This was announced by Interior Minister Manfred Kanther (Christian Democratic Union) when he presented the 1993 BfV report in Bonn on Thursday [14 April]. Indications that the Republikaner are to be rated as a right-wing extremist party are getting stronger. The Republikaner are "adopting increasingly extremist positions, opinions, and methods," Kanther said. But so far, the Federal Government could not bring itself to rate the Republikaner as a right-wing extremist party. The report only says that the party shows "signs of right-wing extremist efforts directed against the liberal democratic constitution." The BvF observations are, however, "not sufficient to rate all members as right-wing extremist." The reason given for this evaluation is that the period of observation has been too short. This opinion is not shared by all of the 16 laender governments. Eight laender share the interior minister's view, while eight think that the Republikaner should be rated as a right-wing extremist party. The 1993 BvF report allocates 78 pages, the lion's share, to the description of right-wing extremist activities. Left-wing extremism is treated on 48 pages. The section on extremist activities by foreigners has been markedly expanded, while the "traditional" part, counterintelligence, has been reduced to a minor role. The BvF concludes that the threat to internal security by violent left-wing extremists was more serious in 1993 than in 1992. In contrast to that, severe public action against right-wing extremists has considerably shaken the neo-Nazi scene and thus helped decrease violent actions in this group. The number of violent crimes committed by foreigners has clearly increased, [the BvF report says]. [passage omitted]
