FBIS3-37766 "drsov036_t_94001" FBIS-SOV-94-036 Document Type:Daily Report 23 Feb 1994 BALTIC STATES Estonia Meri, Ministers Meet To Discuss Amari Incident WS2302112894 Tallinn ETA in English 0827 GMT 23 Feb 94 WS2302112894 Tallinn ETA Language: English Article Type:BFN [From 23 Febraury HOMMIKULEHT, PAEVALEHT, RAHVA HAAL, POSTIMEES, pp 1,3; "News Bulletin" No. 37/94] [Text] Wednesday, February 23 -- President Lennart Meri called a special meeting of Foreign Minister Juri Luik, Interior Minister Heiki Arike and Defence Forces Commander in Chief General Aleksander Einseln yesterday to discuss the incident at the Amari airfield. The Defence Ministry failed to ascertain the location of Defence Minister Indrek Kannik, the presidential chancellery press release added. The meeting discussed the incident and the "unacceptable inefficiency" of the information services to relay information directly concerning Estonia's security and international reputation, the press release read. President Meri received Russian charge d'affaires Anatoliy Ivanov yesterday, who relayed Russian President Boris Yeltsin's congratulations in connection with Estonia's national holiday. The president assured the Russian representative that a thorough investigation will be carried out and the guilty persons will be punished. Russian Charge d'Affaires Ivanov also met the head of the Foreign Ministry political section Toivo Klaar, who expressed his regret with Russia linking the incident to Estonia's official policy and also criticised Russia's reaction to the picketing of its naval HQ in Tallinn on Monday [21 February]. High Russian officials had described it as an inflammatory action, leading to provocations like the incident in Amari. But head of the Russian Foreign Ministry information section Grigoriy Karasin stressed that the incident is not seen as a political one. Still, he described it as a provocation. The Interior Ministry considers a personal vendetta the most likely version. The ministry press release expressed suspicions that persons connected with the Russian Army unit may be involved. Amari has been mentioned as a gateway for illegal immigrants to Estonia and for the removal of stolen property to Russia.
