FBIS4-28462 "dreas112_c_94001" FBIS-EAS-94-112 Daily Report 10 Jun 1994 North Korea Paper Questions Impartiality of IAEA Paper Questions Impartiality of IAEA SK1006102794 Pyongyang KCNA in English 1018 GMT 10 Jun 94 SK1006102794 Pyongyang KCNA English BFN ["IAEA Must Not Pursue Sinister Purpose" -- KCNA headline] [Text] Pyongyang, June 10 (KCNA) -- Hans Blix, director-general of the International Atomic Energy Agency [IAEA], in a report submitted to the United Nations Security Council on June 2 brought forward again "the necessity" of "a special inspection" of two military sites of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, alleging that the possibility of the measurement of fuel rods discharged from the 5 megawatt experimental atomic power plant in the DPRK was lost. He also attempted to prove "the reasonableness" of his demand for "a special inspection" at the June meeting of the Board of Governors of the IAEA. In this regard, a NODONG SINMUN analyst today says: We, in keeping with our special status, honestly accepted the inspection for the continuity of safeguards and even allowed "an additional inspection" and replaced fuel rods in the presence of the agency's inspectors. The agency, however, is now urging us to allow "a special inspection" of two military sites. Lurking behind this are a mean intention and a grave political plot to have access to our military sites under the veil of inspection. The analyst further says: The feasibility of our method of preserving the technical possibility of the later measurement of fuel rods has already been proved on the theoretical and experimental basis. Then, why are some officials of the IAEA Secretariat arbitrarily making a political charge against us, persistently ignoring our method? Do the "impartiality" and "democracy" loudly advertised by some officials of the IAEA Secretariat mean that the member nations should bow to the demand of the agency, with their sovereignty ruthlessly trampled down? While trying to politicize our "nuclear issue" and lead it to an inspection of military sites, they are openly joining the hostile forces in their moves to stifle our socialist system. The IAEA Secretariat must no longer play into the hands of the privileged forces and seek a sinister political purpose but resume its original mission befitting an unbiased international organization.
