FBIS4-60894 "drsov084_b_94024" FBIS-SOV-94-084 Daily Report 30 Apr 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political Issues Ethnic Communities Congress Begins Work Ethnic Communities Congress Begins Work MK3004102094 Moscow SEGODNYA in Russian 30 Apr 94 p 3 MK3004102094 Moscow SEGODNYA Russian BFN [Gleb Cherkasov report under the "Structure" rubric: "Russia's Ethnic Communities Now Have Congress. President and Government Send Greetings"] [Text] The founding convention of the Congress of Ethnic Communities of Russia opened in Moscow on 29 April. Taking part in its work are delegates from 19 ethnic-cultural societies bringing together citizens of Russia who happen to live outside the areas with dense populations of people of the same ethnic origin, or those who have no such areas (dispersed ethnic groups). Also present were representatives of several more ethnic associations who preferred the role of observers, and representatives of the Repressed Peoples Confederation. The idea for holding the congress met with warm support from the powers that be -- at least Boris Yeltsin, and Vice Premiers Sergey Shakhray and Yuriy Yarov thought it appropriate to send their representatives to read out greetings. In particular, the president's message to the congress participants notes the beneficial nature of such an action for improving interethnic relations in Moscow and Russia. For his part Mr. Yarov's representative, who also wished successful work to the congress, invited them to interact with the government apparatus. Also, messages of greetings from the National-Cultural Society to the congress have come from the other countries of the "near and far abroad." In their addresses the congress delegates complained about the disastrous state of their ethnic cultures and lack of appropriate material conditions to revive and develop them; they blamed both the local and central authorities for inattention to the problems of dispersed ethnic groups which, they thought, results from lack of understanding rather than from ill-will. Addressing his fellow members, Mikhail Chlenov, member of the new organization's organizing committee, called on them not to limit their activities to culture and education but also to ponder on how to lend the Congress the functions of a public-political organization.
