FBIS3-127 "drafr040_c_94014" FBIS-AFR-94-040 Document Type:Daily Report 1 Mar 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA Warns of ANC, IFP, Far Right Violence MB2802153394 Johannesburg SAPA in English 1444 GMT 28 Feb 94 MB2802153394 Johannesburg SAPA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Report by Lorraine Braid] [Text] Cape Town Feb 28 SAPA -- A tough programme to ensure law and order would be implemented by the National Party [NP] after the election, Law and Order Minister Hernus Kriel said on Monday [28 February]. Speaking at a press conference, he said when the NP could no longer be accused of a lack of legitimacy, more severe punishments would be put on the statute books and more prisons built to jail criminals. "We will improve South African Police [SAP]-community relations because we believe therein lies the answer to bring down the crime rate. We will also recruit more force members and improve their training as well as provide even better technical equipment." An unfortunate culture of violence had been created in South Africa through intolerance, intimidation and uncontrolled supporters. In this, he said, the ANC [African National Congress] had to be singled out as the main threat to the democratic process. But the IFP [Inkatha Freedom Party] and far right-wing also seemed to be vying for this unenviable position. "Together, their political intolerance and violence threatens to destabilise the transition to democracy and can, if allowed to continue unchecked, create a bloodstained election." The ten major threats to democracy -- in which Mr Kriel said the ANC, IFP and far right played leading or prominent roles -- were political intolerance, uncontrollable supporters, intimidation, no-go areas, illegal weapons, war talk, demonisation of the SAP, murder of policemen, extremism and mass action. "If these organisations use violence to either win an election or reach political objectives, how will they act after gaining victory against their political opponents and when in control of the state's security organisations?"
