FBIS3-61484 "jpust004___94064" JPRS-UST-94-004 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Central Eurasia 26 January 1994 EARTH SCIENCES On the Approximation of the Effective Speed of Sound in the Acoustics of Moving Media Moscow IZVESTIYA AKADEMII NAUK FIZIKA ATMOSFERY I OKEANA in Russian Vol 29, No 2, Apr 93 pp 194-201 Moscow IZVESTIYA AKADEMII NAUK FIZIKA ATMOSFERY I OKEANA Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Article by O. A. Godin, D. Yu. Mikhin, and S. Ya. Molchanov, Russian Academy of Sciences, Institute of Oceanology] [Abstract] The author investigates the applicability of the widely used approximation method for the description of acoustic fields in moving media, which is commonly applied to the measurement of ocean sound fields. The method, which is based on Rayleigh's ``Theory of Sound,'' consists in replacing the the actual moving medium with some immobile one, which has the effective speed of sound, dependent on the speed of the current. Analytical estimates were made of the error in determining the phases and amplitudes of the rays arriving at the point of observation. The validity of the estimates was confirmed by simple models of the medium, with exponential laws on the variation of the speed of the current and of the velocity of sound, which made possible an accurate computation of the path of the rays and eikonals. The validity of the estimates was also confirmed by means of numerical modelling. It was demonstrated that the main component of error in calculating the level of sound pressure under conditions of multiple rays is the error in the determination of the phase of the field at the rays, and that this error increases with distance. This knowledge made it possible to construct formulae expressing the error, and thereby provided a simple method for estimating the applicabiity of the approximation method in calculating the intensity of an acoustic field. In conjunction with these formulae the approximation method can be used successfully.
