FBIS4-40186 "drsov115_b_94008" FBIS-SOV-94-115 Daily Report 15 Jun 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political Issues Number of Migrants May Reach 6 Million Number of Migrants May Reach 6 Million MK1506065094 Moscow SEGODNYA in Russian 15 Jun 94 p 2 MK1506065094 Moscow SEGODNYA Russian BFN [Gleb Cherkasov report under the "Refugees" rubric: "There May Soon Be 6 Million Migrants in Russia. Despairing Deserters Get Together in `Death Squads'"] [Text] Dmitriy Rogozin, leader of the Congress of Russian Communities [CRC], and Garold Zavadko, cochairman of the "Union of Russian Refugees," held a press conference yesterday at which they told journalists about the position of Russian refugees in Russia. They think it has deteriorated sharply today. As the "Union of Russian Refugees" stated, a campaign has begun lately to evict refugees staying in holiday hotels near Moscow. Several court cases have been heard and have reached a decision "to evict without providing [alternative] housing." In the opinion of Mr. Zavadko, there is "collusion between organs of state power against the refugees and a threat of their second deportation." Speaking about prospects for migration of the "Slavic population" from CIS countries and the Baltic states to Russia, Dmitriy Rogozin expects that some 6 million forced migrants may arrive in Russia in the next two years. It was pointed out that the real number exceeds that registered by the Federal Migration Service. Pointing to the fact that under the government directives of 1 May 1994 each refugee should be issued with 1 million rubles for resettlement, Mr. Rogozin told those present to figure out the sum that will have to be earmarked from the state budget. The CRC leader also sharply criticized the current relief system. Dmitriy Rogozin hopes that during the meeting which he may have with Boris Yeltsin during the coming month he will be able to convince the president to give a tax break to the charity tasked with providing real aid to refugees. Mr. Rogozin and Mr. Zavadko singled out the problem of the Russian draftees who have deserted from national armies over politically motivated harassment by their fellow draftees. In the opinion of Dmitriy Rogozin, the despairing deserters, unless they get assistance, may take refuge in quarters close to the shadow economy or even form the basis for "death squads" which would "start taking vengeance on those to blame for their plight."
