FBIS3-23003 "jptot008__l94104" JPRS-TOT-94-008-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Terrorism FOUO 1 March 1994 NEAR EAST/SOUTH ASIA LIBYA Al-Qadhdhafi Reportedly Met Abu-Nidal To Prepare Attacks BR1502122894 Milan CORRIERE DELLA SERA in Italian 15 Feb 94 p 9 BR1502122894 Milan CORRIERE DELLA SERA Language: Italian Article Type:BFN [Guido Olimpio report: "Al-Qadhdhafi `Enrolls' Abu-Nidal and Plans Attacks"] [Text] Mu'ammar al-Qadhdhafi is returning to his old love: terrorism. Under pressure from the Western governments and squeezed by the UN conditions over the Lockerbie affair, the Libyan colonel has decided to resume contacts with his former allies. Lebanese sources revealed to CORRIERE that at the end of December the leader had a lengthy "working" meeting with the elusive Abu-Nidal, the Palestinian extremist sentenced to death by the PLO and wanted by police forces all over the world. During the meeting, which took place amid strict security measures, al-Qadhdhafi informed Abu-Nidal of his intention to revive the international terrorist organization that was behind bloodthirsty attacks in the eighties. The Libyan leader promised that, apart from the usual sources of funding, Abu-Nidal's Fatah-Revolutionary Council will receive a $50,000 check for a series of actions designed to halt the peace process. Furthermore, Libya will reopen its training camps to the extremist's terrorists. According to the same sources, very substantial aid has been allocated to other Middle Eastern groups. In particular, Ahmad Jibril's Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine-General Command has received orders to organize attacks. Jibril himself discussed strategy and objectives with al-Qadhdhafi. With his coffers full and with the protection of the Libyan secret services, Abu-Nidal set to work at once. On 25 November -- though this was not reported until the following month -- the Venezuelan police thwarted a plan to blow up the Israeli Embassy in Caracas. The brains behind the operation was a Palestinian, formerly resident in Colombia, known as Yusuf Salah [name as received]. Just a few days ago in Beirut a Jordanian diplomat was killed by a hit man who was subsequently arrested together with a number of accomplices. According to the Lebanese police, the cell belongs to Abu-Nidal's gang. The most disturbing aspect of this revived cooperation is the fact that al-Qadhdhafi does not even try to conceal his "bad company." In a speech delivered 16 December the colonel said that Libya will be the "Mecca" of guerrilla fighters from Northern Ireland to the Philippines. At a mass rally a few days earlier he urged the leaders of the fiercest terrorist groups to return to Libya.
