FBIS3-33044 "drlat033_m_94008" FBIS-LAT-94-033 Document Type:Daily Report 17 Feb 1994 Brazil U.S. Threats `Have Very Little Effect' on Congress PY1602182694 Sao Paulo O ESTADO DE SAO PAULO in Portuguese 15 Feb 94 p B1 PY1602182694 Sao Paulo O ESTADO DE SAO PAULO Language: Portuguese Article Type:BFN [Article by Rosa Costa] [Text] Brasilia -- U.S. threats of retaliation, with the goal of speeding up approval of the Patents Law, have very little effect on the Brazilian Congress. Most congressmen act as if they already are used to the U.S. reaction that began way before the government sent the bill governing the concession of patents in April 1991. The bill has been handled for two years by the Chamber of Deputies, where it was changed by three amendments, and has been stuck in the Senate since it was received in July 1993. Therefore, it is unlikely the bill will be approved by the end of this month despite the fact that it has become a habit for the Senate to approve issues -- in a plenary session and very urgent discussions -- before the permanent committees review them. Sovereignty Senator Josaphat Marinho (PFL-BA [Liberal Front Party-Bahia State]) noted: "It is an extremely complex and delicate issue to be voted on under pressure by foreigners." In the senator's opinion, civilized coexistence among nations does not allow threats even if one of the nations has a major interest in the handling of a bill. He said: "A nation may not impose solutions that depend on the sovereignty of another nation." Senator Antonio Mariz (PMDB-CE [Brazilian Democratic Movement Party-Ceara]), who replaced Senator Elcio Alvares (PFL-ES [Liberal Front Party-Espirito Santo State]) as the Patents Law rapporteur, is in the United States receiving medical care. Last week, Mariz finally received the amendments submitted by his colleagues for discussion by the Constitution and Justice Committee and the Economic Affairs Committee. Protection This is the phase in which the handling of a bill largely depends on the national lobbies [preceding word in English]. The bill's text is under pressure from the church, which does not admit the patenting of microorganisms, and various industrial sectors, especially the pharmaceutical industry. Itamaraty sources claim that the text approved by the deputies was subject to long discussions and negotiations between the government and entrepreneurs, thus making difficult the introduction of any radical changes to liberalize the text in the Senate. The bill approved in the Chamber of Deputies protects any product introduced, through a copy, into the domestic market before the new law.
