FBIS3-21441 "jpnea015___94043" JPRS-NEA-94-015 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Near East & South Asia 30 January 1994 SOUTH ASIA INDIA Thanjavur Will Host Tamil Conference 94AS0190K Madras INDIAN EXPRESS in English 30 Jan 94 p 5 94AS0190K Madras INDIAN EXPRESS Language: English Article Type:CSO [Text] Madras--The eighth world Tamil conference will be held in Thanjuvar in January next. The five-day conference, to be organised by the International Association of Tamil Research with the full support of the state government, will be held on the Thanjavur University complex from Jan. 1. This is the third Tamil conference to be held in the state. The second was held in Madras in 1968 during the rule of Arignar Anna and the fifth in Madurai in 1981 when MGR [M.G. Ramachandran] was the Chief Minister. A press release, on Saturday, said the decision was taken by Chief Minister J. Jayalalitha on behalf of the government. Seminars, symposia, patti manrams, cultural programmes and exhibitions would be held during the conference. The release said a reception committee, headed by Jayalalitha, would be formed to finalise the events and programmes. The committee would also consist of Finance Minister V.R. Nedunchezhiyan, senior most members of the cabinet and Tamil scholars. An academic committee, headed by the chairman, International Association of Tamil Research, would also be constituted. Besides, committees to look after the souvenir, hospitality, procession, transportation and tour, publicity, dais and pandal arrangements, accommodation, exhibition, information and public relations, city improvement and co-ordination would also be constituted. Avathara Mahotsavams: The Alwar Divya Prabhanda Project, Tirupati, under the auspices of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams [TTD], is celebrating Avathara Mahotsavams of Thondaradippodi Alwar and Thirumazhisai Alwar at the TTD Information Centre, T. Nagar, Madras-17, on Monday (Jan. 31) at 5 p.m. Ms M.S. Ramesh, IAS [Indian Administrative Service], will preside, Sri U.Ve. M.A. Venkatakrishnan and Prof. Gnanasundaram will deliver the lectures.
