FBIS3-14146 "drnes056_l_94001" FBIS-NES-94-056 Document Type:Daily Report 22 Mar 1994 ISRAEL Rabin Said Rejecting UN Presence in Hebron TA2203214694 Jerusalem Israel Television Channel 1 Network in Hebrew 1800 GMT 22 Mar 94 TA2203214694 Jerusalem Israel Television Channel 1 Network in Hebrew 1800 GMT 22 Mar 94 Language: Hebrew Article Type:BFN [Studio talk between anchorman Hayim Yavin and political correspondent Gadi Sukenik] [Text] [Yavin] We now return to the political process. Our political correspondent Gadi Sukenik is in the studio. The consultations between the prime minister and the delegation which returned today from Tunis are continuing. Is there any chance of either a summit meeting or the resumption of the talks? Are there any new decisions, Gadi? [Sukenik] Yes. The consultations are still under way here and in Tunis but the picture that is forming appears to be quite positive. Rabin received an optimistic briefing from the members of the Israeli delegation. Here are the facts: Rabin apparently agrees to an international presence in Hebron as demanded by the Palestinians, as well as to the immediate deployment of a Palestinian police force. The quantities, weapons, and all the other details still have to be worked out tomorrow in Cairo. Rabin definitely rejects an armed UN presence in Hebron and insists that everything remain under Israeli control. The delegation, composed of the same members -- Deputy Chief of Staff Amnon Shahaq, Foreign Ministry Director General Uri Savir, Prime Minister Rabin's adviser Jacques Neriya, and legal adviser Yo'el Zinger -- will leave tomorrow afternoon for Cairo. Most importantly, the Norwegians are at this very moment sending out invitations to a conference scheduled to take place in Cairo on 24 March for all the countries that are supposed to be contributing to the autonomy institutions. If everything goes smoothly and rapid progress is made in the discussions, PLO Chairman Yasir 'Arafat will attend this conference and Foreign Minister Shim'on Peres will also most likely show up. The two men will hold a summit meeting and then practical negotiations on the implemention of the IDF's [Israel Defense Forces] withdrawal from the Gaza Strip and Jericho will resume at the beginning of next week. [Yavin] Thank you, Gadi Sukenik.
