FBIS3-56120 "drsov009_f_94008" FBIS-SOV-94-009 Document Type:Daily Report 13 Jan 1994 National Affairs Edict Sets Up Ways of Improved Use of Mineral Deposits AU1301110494 Kiev HOLOS UKRAYINY in Ukrainian 11 Jan 94 p 4 AU1301110494 Kiev HOLOS UKRAYINY Language: Ukrainian Article Type:BFN ["Ukrainian Presidential Edict on the Geological Exploration and Procedure for Utilizing Ukraine's Tectonically Produced Mineral Deposits" issued in Kiev on 30 December] [Text] In order to ensure a comprehensive and more complete utilization of mineral raw-materials resources and improve the state of the environment, I resolve as follows: 1. To determine that all those remnants of raw materials resulting from extraction, enrichment, and processing of mineral raw materials that have been covered by geological studies in accordance with an established procedure and that have been valued and found to be of industrial significance are placed in the category of tectonically produced mineral deposits. The tectonically produced mineral deposits are included into the State Fund for Ukraine's Mineral Deposits and are used in accordance with the procedure established by Ukraine's legislation on mineral resources. 2. To determine that the placement of remnants of raw materials resulting from extraction, enrichment, and processing of mineral raw materials in the category of tectonically produced mineral deposits does not entail any change in the existing legislation on the procedure for collecting payment for their presence in the environment. 3. Ukraine's State Committee for Geology and Utilization of Mineral Resources is in charge of organizing and methodologically ensuring geological exploration of tectonically produced mineral deposits. 4. In elaborating draft plans for socioeconomic development, Ukraine's Ministry of Economy, jointly with Ukraine's State Committee on Geology and Utilization of Mineral Deposits must provide, starting from 1994, for a separate item specifying capital on the geological exploration of tectonically produced mineral deposits within the limits of capital allocated for financing geological exploration. [Signed] Ukraine's President L. Kravchuk [Dated] Kiev, 30 December 1993
