FBIS3-32786 "drlat031_a_94014" FBIS-LAT-94-031 Document Type:Daily Report 15 Feb 1994 CARIBBEAN Cuba Carlos Lage Grants Interview Upon Return to Havana FL1202030294 Havana Tele Rebelde and Cuba Vision Networks in Spanish 0100 GMT 12 Feb 94 FL1202030294 Havana Tele Rebelde and Cuba Vision Networks Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Passages within quotation marks recorded] [Text] Carlos Lage Davila, vice president of the Council of State, returned early this morning to our country after a fruitful working tour of Brazil, Venezuela, and Colombia. In an exclusive interview by our reporter (Carea Bermudes), Lage stresses the importance of the trip. [Lage] "We are very satisfied with the trip. I believe the meetings we held with the presidents of the three countries were excellent. We established an excellent channel of communication and I think the opportunities represented by these meetings are very important for us. We had the occasion to explain our situation, what we are doing, the measures we are adopting, and the importance of the struggle against the U.S. blockade under current conditions. "We met not only with the presidents of those countries, but also with other officials, with ministers and businessmen. I think the environment is very positive for strengthening current political, economic, and commercial relations with the countries we visited. The fruit of this positive environment was the visits to those countries, and I believe these visits can contribute to improving relations. [(Bermudes)] "In your opinion, what were the highlights of those visits? [Lage] "I think the most outstanding points were the respect for the Cuban Revolution, the interest in our country's situation, the increasing awareness of the need to fight against the U.S. blockade, an understanding of the measures the country is adopting to adjust itself to current circumstances, and the possibility that the measures we are adopting can lead to greater economic integration with Latin America. I think one of the main results of the visits is the thrust we are giving to inviting investment in the Cuban economy and strengthening economic and commercial ties, as well as opening new possibilities for the export of Cuban products to those countries of the region." Colombian Ambassador to Cuba (Ricardo Santamaria) also returned to Havana. He participated in Lage's visit to Colombia. Santamaria also conveyed his opinion to this station. [(Santamaria)] "I would say that the visit was very positive because bilateral relations were strengthened, especially in the area of business. Vice President Lage met with Colombian businessmen, six ministers, and President Gaviria. We must also mention the visit of Cuban Foreign Minister Roberto Robaina and the reestablishment of relations. We hope that after this visit, we will be able to arrange a visit to Cuba between Colombian businessmen and various ministers for closer identification of points of cooperation. [(Bermudes)] "And what about the invitation extended by Lage to President Gaviria to visit Cuba? [(Santamaria)] Well, we have a program which includes a visit by the transport minister and by the foreign trade minister for the signing of a preliminary agreement, and finally the visit of Foreign Minister Noemi Sanin. These arrangements are in progress and we hope they will develop well. I am certain that the development of these relations will be fruitful both for Colombia and Cuba."
