FBIS3-56214 "drsov010_c_94021" FBIS-SOV-94-010 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Jan 1994 Federal Assembly State Duma Seat To Be Built on Kutuzovskiy Prospekt MK1401111094 Moscow MOSKOVSKIY KOMSOMOLETS in Russian 14 Jan 94 p 1 MK1401111094 Moscow MOSKOVSKIY KOMSOMOLETS Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Anastasiya Kasyanikova report: "Where Will the Duma -- Thought, in Russian -- Think Its Thought? Cherry Orchard-94"] [Text] In 18 months or so Kutuzovskiy Prospekt will be transformed from a government highway into a sort of Capitol Hill. Yesterday, a government commission decided at its meeting on where to build a new State Duma building. Apparently, this is the final decision. It turned out that the question has been under discussion, without too much publicity, for as long as two months. From the outset there have been two proposals. The first option was to split the government complex into two parts. The residential part was to be built on the outskirts of the White House, and the office building at the "Krasnaya Presnya" stadium. Apart from the fact that the area is cramped for space, which embarrasses both the customers and the builders, the Duma's proximity to the U.S. Embassy does not suit the special services. They were not embarrassed, though, when the White House was built, nor did they have any doubts about moving the government there. The second option, however, suited everyone -- it gives room for frolicking. Over 20 hectares between Kutuzovskiy Prospekt and the Belarusian railway line will turn into a construction site for the future parliamentary center. The complex of buildings itself will be erected right in front of the Arch of Triumph. Deputies will also be able to run to the Borodino Panorama [exhibition of war against Napoleon] during breaks between meetings. Four years ago, a Foreign Ministry complex, nicknamed Shevardnadze's congress center, was nearly built on that same spot. A competition of blueprints was even conducted. But it fell through.... This time, the commission will be very meticulous in studying new blueprints. The thirst for civilization is so great that there are already plans to send messengers to Brussels, Strasbourg, and Bonn soon to study Europe's best parliamentary architecture.
