FBIS3-60740 "jptnd002___94068" JPRS-TND-94-002 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:PROLIFERATION ISSUES 18 January 1994 WEST EUROPE ITALY Synchroton Facility Used By Pharmaceutical Companies BR1712144593 Turin MEDIA DUEMILA in Italian Nov 93 p 78 BR1712144593 Turin MEDIA DUEMILA Language: Italian Article Type:BFN [Text] Three multinational pharmaceutical companies, Ciba-Geigy, Sandoz, and Hoechst, have already scheduled experiments at Elettra. Elettra is a super microscope that uses synchrotron light and began operating in Trieste on 4 October. According to the three companies, in the future 80 percent of the research into the structure of new pharmaceuticals will be performed using this extremely powerful insturment. Elettra, the most powerful super microscope in Europe, took 6 years to build and to date has cost 300 billion lire. Inside Elettra electron beams are brought an energy of 1.5 Giga electron volts by a linear particle accelerator and are then injected into an accumulator ring containing curved magnet and other devices that cause them to loose energy under the form of synchrotorn light. This intense radiation is then directed into channels leading to experimental laboratories where the researchers work. The light produced acts like an extremely powerful microscope that is capable of observing matter, both organic and inorganic, in great detail. ``It is unique in the world because of the particular `brilliance' of its light beam,'' said the physicist and Elettra Scientific Committee President Giorgio Maritondo, ``this light is capable of investigating the chemical bonds of the molecules contained in any given substance.'' Elettra can be used in the field of biology to examine the distribution of toxic elements in cerebral cell systems. The ``light'' will not be used for pharmaceutical research alone. Many other sectors will benefit from Elettra: its 50 ``light lines'' will enable unique experiments to be performed, both basic and applied research, in the field of computer science for the production of integrated circuits; in the mechanical field for the manufacture of microcomponents, and in the chemical sector for the study of new materials.
