FBIS3-11353 "drlat054_c_94009" FBIS-LAT-94-054 Document Type:Daily Report 18 Mar 1994 MEXICO Parties Agree on Autonomy for Electoral Bodies PA1903132494 Mexico City Canal 13 Television Azteca Network in Spanish 1300 GMT 18 Mar 94 PA1903132494 Mexico City Canal 13 Television Azteca Network in Spanish 1300 GMT 18 Mar 94 Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [From the "Early Morning" newscast] [Text] The country's main political forces have reached an agreement for giving autonomy to the electoral bodies. It is an important reform that gives the people control in the decisions of the Federal Electoral Institute [IFE]. These are the proposals that will be voted during the special congressional sessions. The PRI [Institutional Revolutionary Party], PAN [National Action Party], and the PRD [Party of the Democratic Revolution] reached an agreement last night to reform the IFE and granted a majority to the people's participation. According to the proposal, which will be discussed next week during the special congressional sessions, the following will be the composition of the body as agreed upon by the country's three main political forces . The political parties have 10 votes: four from the PRI, two from PAN, and one each from the PRD, PPS [Popular Socialist Party], PARM [Authentic Party of the Mexican Revolution], and the Cardenist Front for National Reconstruction Party; this represents 47.6 percent of the total. With the reform, there will be one representative from each party, with a right of verbal participation but not to vote. The people's participation includes six magistrate-advisers, who must be lawyers, with a total of six votes, representing 28.6 percent of the total. The reform proposed the participation of six citizen-advisers, without any professional requirements, who must be elected by a congressional two-thirds majority and with six votes, representing 54.5 percent of the total. The legislative branch participates with four votes, two deputies and two senators who represent 19 percent of the total. With the reform, they would have the same four votes, two deputies and two senators, who would now represent 36.4 percent of the total. The president of IFE--that is, the government secretary--has one vote, with a right to break a tie and representation for 4.8 percent of the total. With the reform, that official will continue to have one vote but without a right to break a tie and with a participation of 9.1 percent of the total. Presently the IFE composition represents 21 votes; with the reform it would represent 11 votes. In this manner, the major weight of the decisions would be delegated to the representatives of society.
