FBIS3-32518 "drlat027_r_94003" FBIS-LAT-94-027 Document Type:Daily Report 9 Feb 1994 Peru * Over 1,000 Terrorists Indicted in 1993 94WT0005Z Lima EL COMERCIO in Spanish 1 Jan 94 p A4 94WT0005Z Lima EL COMERCIO Language: Spanish Article Type:CSO [Text] The Office of Attorney General convicted over 1,000 terrorists in cases it handled this year, Daniel Espichan Tumay announced yesterday. The official also appealed to authorities not to let down their guard facing the subversive enemy so as to prevent such terrorists from once again sowing unrest among the people. Espichan Tumay further noted that the respectable figure was achieved thanks to the excellent work of the Judicial Branch and military and reported that in 1993, 1,500 reformed terrorists had cooperated with the courts. While observing that the Peruvian people are convinced that positive progress has been made in the fight, he repeated his appeal to civilian, military, and police authorities not to rest on their laurels. "We must understand that terrorism will continue its onslaught because some leaders remain at large. Peace will be achieved only as the result of well-planned, transparent work and while paying respect to human rights," he said. Presidential Instructions on Human Rights He also reported that as a special mission entrusted to him by President Alberto Fujimori, he has toured the country explaining to civil authorities and officials in the Judicial Branch and Attorney General's Office that they must take special precautions when apprehending individuals. "The Police have been technically and scientifically trained and will find evidence proving whether or not a person is responsible for a crime. Otherwise, the rights of any citizen could be violated," he explained. He said errors have been made in some cases and that the proper authorities have been duly notified, but added that what was important was "not to make any more." Espichan Tumay said he is confident that with a titular Supreme Court, things will improve. "A great deal remains to be done. We still have many prisoners who have been charged and all of Peru's higher courts must also be instructed to follow the same procedures applied in Lima," he said.
