FBIS4-58510 "drnes087_l_94004" FBIS-NES-94-087 Daily Report 5 May 1994 ISRAEL Pledges $200 Million to Autonomy Pledges $200 Million to Autonomy TA0505110194 Jerusalem Qol Yisra'el in English 1000 GMT 5 May 94 TA0505110194 Jerusalem Qol Yisra'el English BFN [Text] Japan has pledged $200 million to the Palestinian autonomy, which may be extended. This was announced this morning by Japan's Foreign Minister Koji Kakizawa after meeting Palestinian leader Faysal al-Husayni in East Jerusalem. Earlier, he met with Prime Minister Yitzhaq Rabin in Tel Aviv. [Begin recording] [Correspondent No'omi Segal] Japan has committed $200 million to the Palestinian autonomy, to be spread over the coming two years. Fifty million dollars have already been dispersed. The money was used to buy medical equipment for the Jericho hospital, to pay for the construction of Palestinian police facilities, and other development projects. The Japanese have also invited 70 Palestinians for training in the use of construction machinery. Japanese Foreign Minister Koji Kakizawa announced the aid package after meeting with Prime Minister Yitzhaq Rabin in Tel Aviv. He praised Rabin on the peace process, noting that he had been in Cairo for the signing ceremony. Afterwards, Koji Kakizawa held talks in East Jerusalem with Palestinian leader Faysal al-Husayni. Emerging from the meeting, the Japanese foreign minister said he hoped the aid package would be extended and congratulated Israel and the PLO on signing the autonomy accord. [Kakizawa] I am very pleased to be here at this historical moment. There are still critical issues on both sides -- on the Palestinian side and the Israeli side -- but we hope that your goodwill and your determination to get peace will solve many, many difficulties, and we hope that you will go forward for stability and peace in this region. [Segal] Kakizawa continued on to Jericho, becoming the first foreign dignitary to visit since the signing. He will then cross into Jordan via the Allenby bridge and later visit Syria. [end recording]
