FBIS4-20139 "drweu082_h_94012" FBIS-WEU-94-082 Daily Report 28 Apr 1994 GERMANY CDU Presidium Backs Ruehe CDU Presidium Backs Ruehe AU2804105694 Munich SUEDDEUTSCHE ZEITUNG in German 28 Apr 94 p 3 AU2804105694 Munich SUEDDEUTSCHE ZEITUNG German BFN ["eli"-signed report: "CDU Leadership Supports Ruehe's Bundeswehr Plans"] [Text] Bonn -- The Christian Democratic Union [CDU] presidium is backing Defense Minister Volker Ruehe in the dispute about the Bundeswehr reform and has widely approved of "basic considerations" on a reform of the forces. CDU Secretary General Werner Hintze said in Bonn on Wednesday [27 April] that it is important to increase the Bundeswehr's efficiency and to prepare it for its future tasks. The presidium has worked out five principles on which the reform will be based: Compulsory military service must be maintained and equity in conscription increased. A structural reform must adjust the Bundeswehr to its new tasks, such as establishing crisis-reaction forces. The army needs modern equipment. And finally, some streamlining is necessary in the organization. Hintze emphasized that the size of the army and the duration of military service must take these principles into account. Defense Minister Ruehe, who is a member of the CDU presidium, has always stressed that cutting the time of military service by two months and reducing the army to 340,000 troops is the only way to meet these requirements. Hintze pointed out that the working group set up by the coalition must produce results quickly and must not discuss the matter "for months." The secretary general said the talks should be concluded before the summer recess as the soldiers have a right to security of planning. Social Democratic Party [SPD] Chairman Rudolf Scharping accused Ruehe of doing harm to the Bundeswehr. Scharping spoke of a "tug-of-war between two worn-out coalition partners motivated by party politics" that is carried out at the expense of the Bundeswehr. But the troops need perspectives they can rely on. They did enormous work in German unification and they have a right for speculations to come to an end. In its party program, the SPD is aiming at reducing the army to 300,000 troops.
