FBIS4-47353 "jpust012___94107" JPRS-UST-94-012 JPRS Science & Technology Central Eurasia 8 June 1994 ENGINEERING AND EQUIPMENT NUCLEAR AND NON-NUCLEAR ENERGY New Oil and Gas Sources in Ukraine New Oil and Gas Sources in Ukraine 947F0084A Kiev VISNYK AKADEMIYI NAUK UKRAYINY in Ukrainian No. 10, 1993 pp 32-39 947F0084A Kiev VISNYK AKADEMIYI NAUK UKRAYINY Ukrainian CSO [Article by Geotectonics Department Head, Geological Sciences Institute, AN [Academy of Sciences] of Ukraine, Academician Ivan Illich Chebanenko, Head, Geology and genesis of Oil and Gas Deposits Department, Geological Sciences Institute, AN of Ukraine, Doctor of Geological Mineralogical Sciences Vladilen Oleksiyovych Krayushkin and Head, Laboratory of Fracture Tectonics and Oil and Gas Capacity of Pre-Cambrian Geological Structures, Geological Sciences Institute, AN of Ukraine, Viktor Petrovych Klochko] [Abstract] Ukraine's demand for oil and natural gas is substantially higher than oil and gas production in the Dnieper-Donets, sub-Carpathian and Crimea sub-Black Sea regions. The situation can hardly change to the better if geological surveying keeps concentrating along usual directions. The most promising way is the use of nontraditional natural sources of oil, gas and condensate first of all in deep Earth's crust zones and zones of gas hydrate formation (GHF) under the Black Sea. In the authors' opinion Ukraine has no other geological opportunities. In 1985-1987 12 commercial oil and gas deposits had been discovered on the northern board of the Dnieper-Donets Depression (DDD). The authors assessed the size of oil and gas reserves in those deposits using two different methods. Also oil and gas were discovered on the DDD southern board. There are also prospects for finding oil and gas deposits in Western Ukraine. Another non-traditional and promising direction is oil and gas prospecting in the astrobleme zone. There are six known astrobleme zones in Ukraine. The third direction is prospecting for and commercial use of subhydrate hydrocarbon gas and hydrocarbon gas hydrates in the Black Sea. The three proposed approaches should be viewed as additional to currently used traditional geological prospecting methods. Tables 1, references 9: 7 Russian, 2 Western.
