FBIS3-49309 "dreeu006_k_94003" FBIS-EEU-94-006 Document Type:Daily Report 10 Jan 1994 CROATIA Albright Comments on Visit, Sanctions LD0701152294 Zagreb Radio Croatia Network in Serbo-Croatian 1400 GMT 7 Jan 94 LD0701152294 Zagreb Radio Croatia Network Language: Serbo-Croatian Article Type:BFN [Excerpts] Madeleine Albright, U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, left Zagreb this morning. [passage omitted] I visited the mass grave at Ovcara and saw the devastation of nearby Vukovar in order to express U.S. support to the newly founded war crimes tribunal in The Hague, Ambassador Albright said at a news conference in Zagreb prior to her departure for Warsaw. All those who killed innocent children, women and men, must be brought to trial, she went on to say. I talked with President Tudjman about this. Individuals, the perpetrators of the crime, are those who must be brought to trial. The imposition of collecive guilt on a nation should be avoided, she said. President Tudjman has confirmed that Croatia is willing to offer its full support to the gathering of evidence on committed war crimes. The UN Security Council demands the same from all other countries. The United States will not support the alleviation or the abolition of sanctions against Serbia if the Serbian side hampers the work of the war crimes tribunal, nor will amnesty of war criminals be supported, Ambassador Albright said. [passage omitted] I am again expressing American firm support for Security Council Resolution No. 871 and for the territorial integrity of the Republic of Croatia. I wish to thank President Tudjman and the Croatian Government for the support they have lent us in the course of our stay in Croatia, and would also like to thank the UN Protection Forces for for having enabled us to visit Vukovar yesterday, Madeleine Albright said. Replying to a journalist asking if the imposition of sanctions against Croatia will be examined because of its behavior toward Bosnia-Herzegovina, the American Ambassador said: [Begin Albright recording, in English fading into superimposed Croatian translation] I discussed this with President Tudjman; we spoke about how important it is for the Croatian Government to use whatever influence it has over the Croatian Defense Council not to obstruct the dispatch of humanitarian aid, which is of vital importance. [end recording]
