FBIS3-13985 "drnes055__s94035" FBIS-NES-94-055-S Document Type:Daily Report 18 Feb 1994 INDIAN VIEWS Warning Issued on Attempts to Internationalize Kashmir 94AS0219E Varanasi AJ in Hindi 18 Feb 94 pp 1, 10 94AS0219E Varanasi AJ Language: Hindi Article Type:CSO [Unattributed article: "Pakistan Warned Not To Raise Kashmir As An International Issue and Jeopardize Secretary-Level Talks"] [Text] New Delhi, 17 February -- India has warned Pakistan that if it presents the Kashmir resolution in the Geneva Human Rights Commission meeting, then foreign secretary-level talks between the two countries will be hurt. A Foreign Ministry spokesman said here today that if Pakistan continues to pressure for the introduction of this resolution, then bilateral talks will be endangered. The spokesman said, "The whole world knows that Pakistan has nothing to do with human rights in the Kashmir issue; it just wants to take political advantage of this issue." The spokesman said that India was still intent on resolving the problem between the two countries through talks. He said that the prime minister has clearly indicated that India is committed to talking to Pakistan about Kashmir and all other issues. The spokesman expressed the hope that Pakistan would not introduce the Kashmir resolution in Geneva. He said that India has already told all member nations about Pakistan's real reason for introducing the resolution. "All countries are aware of Pakistan's goal and also of Pakistan's involvement in Kashmir," he said. Foreign Minister Salman Khursheed made it clear at the Human Rights Commission meeting yesterday that Pakistan is not qualified to talk about human rights, because its own record in this area is very bad. He said that India has supported bilateral talks on all issues in Pakistan; it also supports talks according to the Shimla Agreement. He said that India sent a six-point proposal to Pakistan to increase mutual trust; however, Pakistan did not even consider sending a formal reply. *
