FBIS4-41985 "drsov126_a_94017" FBIS-SOV-94-126 Daily Report 29 Jun 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Tank Exercise Held in Tajikistan Near Afghan Border Tank Exercise Held in Tajikistan Near Afghan Border LD2906164194 Moscow Ostankino Television First Channel Network in Russian 1100 GMT 29 Jun 94 LD2906164194 Moscow Ostankino Television First Channel Network Russian BFN [Video report by correspondent Mikhail Nikulin from Tajikistan; from the "Novosti" newscast] [Announcer Boris Kostenko] Russia's 201st Motor Rifle Division has held a tactical exercise in Tajikistan. [Nikulin] This was some exercise. The young tank crews of Russia's 201st Motor Rifle Division pitted their skills against mountainous conditions, and tested their ability to withstand 40 degree heat. The latest combat materiel was also tried out. As the military usually say in such circumstances, the exercises were carried out with great skill and many tactical and combat objectives were achieved. But we were interested in something else. The exercise coincided with the inter-Tajik talks in Tehran. Furthermore, the shooting at practice targets was carried out very close to the border. What is this, then? A display of strength or a flexing of muscles? [Begin B. Melnik, deputy commander of a tank regiment, recording] That cannot be said. We are carrying out routine summer combat training. But everybody knows that the officers and men of the 201st Motor Rifle Division are stationed on the border, are protecting the Tajik border. The 201st Division is stationed there together with the Armed Forces of Tajikistan and Russia's border troops. So, those who wanted to test the division and its muscle already know and feel its power. [end recording] [Nikulin] The border where the men of the 201st Division are serving with Russian border guards as part of the CIS collective peacekeeping forces continues to be unsettled. According to authoritative sources, Tajik opposition guerrillas in Afghanistan are continuing to transfer their armed formations toward the Pamir sector of the border.
