FBIS4-24880 "drchi107_h_94003" FBIS-CHI-94-107 Daily Report 3 Jun 1994 West Europe XINHUA Interviews Maltese Prime Minister Prior To Visit XINHUA Interviews Maltese Prime Minister Prior To Visit OW0306055794 Beijing XINHUA in English 0535 GMT 3 Jun 94 OW0306055794 Beijing XINHUA English BFN [Text] Valletta, Malta, June 3 (XINHUA) -- Maltese Prime Minister Edward Fenech Adami said that he will seek an approach to even better Maltese-Chinese relations during his upcoming visit to China on June 6-11. In an interview with XINHUA NEWS AGENCY on the eve of his visit, the prime minister also recalled his first visit to China in 1978. "Even when I came to China as an opposition leader, I realized the importance of promoting our bilateral relations." The coming visit will give him the opportunity to exchange views on bilateral and multilateral cooperation with Chinese leaders, Adami added. The Prime Minister pointed out that great potential exists for the two countries to further strengthen their economic cooperation. Commenting on Malta's domestic economic policy, Adami said the national economic structure is undergoing readjustment and transformation, and that government efforts to encourage private enterprise and liberal trade have produced fine results. Despite wide-spread recession in Western Europe, the Maltese economy has performed relatively well, with a low unemployment rate of four percent and steady development in tourism and the electronics industry, the prime minister said. At the moment, Malta is seeking European Union membership which, he underlined, will have great political and economic significance for his country. On the Mediterranean situation, the Maltese official suggested that the Mediterranean nations should strengthen their ties and set up a permanent organization to facilitate cooperation and dialogue. He also acknowledged some potentially dangerous situations in the region and warned against those negative factors that could degenerate into conflict. Adami hailed the peaceful solution to the Palestinian issue as very positive, and expressed the hope that the Palestinian-Israeli accord will produce good results.
