FBIS4-56174 "drlat084__a94021" FBIS-LAT-94-084-A Daily Report 2 May 1994 ANNEX Cuba Castro Favors Administrative Measures Castro Favors Administrative Measures PA0205021694 Havana PRENSA LATINA in Spanish 0000 GMT 2 May 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY PA0205021694 Havana PRENSA LATINA Spanish BFN [Text] Havana, 1 May (PL) -- Cuban President Fidel Castro on 1 May advocated the adoption of administrative rather than penal measures against those who violate economic laws. During the debate on renting and the illegal sale of vehicles and homes at the special session of the Cuban parliament, the chief of state called for corrective economic measures, noting that they are more effective than prison terms. In addition, the corrective economic measures increase rather than diminish state resources. During a discussion of the issue, it was reported that fraud and misdemeanors have been committed in contracts to rent [permutar] and sell homes as well as to transfer automobiles. In a previous speech, the Cuban maximum leader favored salary revaluations for workers and for those who make an honest living. Fidel Castro said: We are not solving an economic imbalance, we are considering what to do and when to do it. He made a call to adopt such measures with political, technical, and revolutionary sense until the final consequences. He refused to take half measures. He also favored gradual implementation of the measures, as did Jose Luis Rodriguez, finance and prices minister, who said the measures will go into effect in at least 18 months. A change of currency is among the measures being studied by the parliament, and there is a consensus to implement it at such time as the government deems appropriate. Almost all the speakers requested immediate, harsh disciplinary measures against speculators to ensure that the architects of the underground economy will not go unpunished. The Assembly decided to conclude this special session on 2 May. Some 551 deputies and many foreign guests are attending the special session.
