FBIS4-66492 "jpjst025__l94009" JPRS-JST-94-025L JPRS Science & Technology Japan 29 November 1993 Aerospace STA To Include SPring-8, COMETS in Supplementary Budget STA To Include SPring-8, COMETS in Supplementary Budget 94FE0269B Tokyo NIHON KEIZAI SHIMBUN in Japanese 29 Nov 93 p 17 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 94FE0269B Tokyo NIHON KEIZAI SHIMBUN Japanese CSO [Article with no byline] [Text] In the second modified budget to be submitted by the cabinet to the Diet on 30 November, the Science and Technology Agency (STA) included the expedited construction plans for two key projects -- SPring-8, a large radiating light facility, which is being constructed in the Harima Science Park City in Hyogo Prefecture, and the Communications and Broadcasting Engineering Test Satellite (COMETS), which is scheduled to be launched in FY96. Both projects are being accelerated in the belief that they will contribute to the enrichment of the citizen's life, which is one of Prime Minister Hosokawa's key slogans. The STA modification budget is expected to run up to ¥16.1 billion. The budget for the radiating light facility includes about ¥7 billion in electron beam accelerator construction costs. The facility is being constructed through a joint effort of the Japan Atomic Energy Research Institute (JAERI) and the Institute of Physical and Chemical Research (IPCR). It will accelerate electron beams to a speed close to the speed of light with a linear accelerator and a synchrotron, and the resulting radiating light that will be generated when the electron orbit is bent will be taken out as a beam line to be used for materials experiments and medical diagnoses. STA included ¥7 billion for the expedited construction of said facility even in the first modified budget and is going to allocate ¥12.7 billion for the same purpose in the preliminary budget request for the next year. The modification budget this time will make sure at least a portion of it becomes usable in FY97. About ¥6.2 billion has been budgeted for the development of COMETS to expedite the manufacture of the engineering model and the actual unit. The development of this satellite, intended for television broadcasting, was started in FY90.
