FBIS3-58822 "drweu015_b_94006" FBIS-WEU-94-015 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Jan 1994 BENELUX Belgium Agusta Scandal Calls For Urgent Measures BR2101131894 Brussels LA LIBRE BELGIQUE in French 21 Jan 94 p 1 BR2101131894 Brussels LA LIBRE BELGIQUE Language: French Article Type:BFN [Commentary by Guy Daloze: "A Necessary Fuse-Wire?"] [Text] Pick up your newspapers again: For the last 20 days, public life has revolved around nothing but the Agusta affair, blotting out all other problems, such as the global pact, unemployment, budget control. It's not that the journalists are short of ideas or copy. But all of rue de la Loi is seemingly paralyzed, unable to really concentrate on anything else. And rightly so, as the affair raises so many political and ethical problems, as the impact assumes growing importance and is now touching upon the very future of our democratic system. And it is going to continue. It is impossible to settle just like that, with just a few statements of principle, an affair which has kept the legal profession busy for two and one-half years. And that is the whole problem: Our country cannot afford the luxury of such a paralysis, especially saince it is accompanied by the harbingers of a crisis. Since the debates by the Chamber of Deputies and the "signals" which its partners have sent to the PS [Socialist Party], in practice the coalition has ceased to exist in parliament while Jean-Luc Dehaene gives no more than half-hearted support for his first deputy prime minister, Guy Coeme. Especially also as the damage increases: Public opinion is becoming increasingly scornful of politicians, certain journalists are happy to rely on anonymous informers to launch scathing attacks, and a party as important as the VLD [Flemish Liberals and Democrats] does not hesitate to play the dangerous card of an extreme right- wing, antiparliamentary formation. Government paralysis, coalition in danger, deteriorating climate and attitudes: The diagnosis is clear and calls for urgent measures. We respect the right to defense and the presumption of innocence. But we know that a nation, a community, a party, and a coalition cannot remain insensitive to the concept of greater interests. As the politician responsible for the helicopter affair, Guy Coeme has but a few days to convince. Or to resign: Fuse wires are sometimes necessary.
