FBIS3-32702 "drlat030_t_94004" FBIS-LAT-94-030 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Feb 1994 Venezuela Caracas Wants Caricom Trade Partners To Lower Tariffs PA1402031694 Caracas EL NACIONAL in Spanish 9 Feb 94 p E-3 PA1402031694 Caracas EL NACIONAL Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Report by Adriana Cortes] [Text] Yesterday, Foreign Trade Institute [ICE] Minister Alberto Poletto announced that, in accordance with President Rafael Caldera's inaugural speech in which he said Venezuela's agreements with other countries must be based on reciprocity, Venezuela will reappraise its treaty with Caricom [Caribbean Common Market] countries -- a pact that calls on Venezuela to offer unilateral preferences to Caribbean countries. Regarding this point, the new ICE minister said the various ministers who deal with economic issues will study the preliminary text of the Group of Three [G-3] agreement to make suggestions and draw up a joint position in about a week, because, in the words of the ICE minister, "we are very interested in signing the G-3 agreement, but not hastily." Poletto added that mechanisms are being sought to attain reciprocity in agreements with Caricom member-nations, but within the framework of negotiations with these countries. "There is willingness among the Caricom members themselves, because they have concluded, just as we have, that reciprocity makes bilateral negotiations more efficient, which is the idea behind this point. [no closing quotation marks as published] The Caricom agreement was signed in 1992 and includes, among various points, the entry of Caribbean products and capital into Venezuela with increased facility and tariff preferences without Venezuela receiving other types of preferences in exchange. At the time of its signing, the treaty was part of a strategic, long-term foreign policy plan, and, in turn, the primary concern was not with commercial issues, although such issues will now be examined. According to the ICE minister, studies are under way to amend the agreement in such a manner that certain Venezuelan products would be subject to smaller tariffs than those extant in Caricom countries, as well as having Caribbean nations offer possible investment incentives for Venezuelan capital, even though these countries are less developed than Venezuela. Meanwhile, agreements with Central American countries would be retained in their current form. These agreements, although not completely balanced, do offer a gradual liberalizing of tariffs. In fact, Alberto Poletto is to travel tomorrow to Montevideo, Uruguay, to represent Venezuela at a meeting of ALADI [Latin American Integration Association] foreign ministers in light of the fact that the foreign minister cannot attend. At the meeting, efforts will be made to reach an agreement concerning Mexico's participation in NAFTA, because, according to Article 44 of the ALADI Charter, any member who gives preferences to a third country must extend those same preferences to ALADI members. In other words, the 10 Latin American member-states should in theory receive the same preferences Mexico has extended to the United States and Canada -- a position defended by Mercosur [Common Market of the South] countries. According to Poletto, Venezuela will adopt a neutral position that could reconcile both positions, because, according to previous negotiations, Venezuela supports Mexico in the search for a formula that does not interfere with negotiations with third countries.
