FBIS3-10834 "drlat049_t_94005" FBIS-LAT-94-049 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Mar 1994 Venezuela National Guard Commander in Zulia Department Dismissed PA1303044994 Caracas EL NACIONAL in Spanish 9 Mar 94 p B16 PA1303044994 Caracas EL NACIONAL Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Report by Ebis Romero] [Text] Maracaibo, 8 Mar -- General Antonio Rojas Salazar, National Guard commander in Zulia Department who was slated to be transferred on 5 July, has been removed unexpectedly without both the usual change of command ceremonies and the presence of General Egberto Artuza Delgado, general commander of the Armed Forces of Cooperation [FAC], who preceded Rojas Salazar as head of the 3d Regional Command of the National Guard Garrison in Zulia. Rojas was to have been transferred on 5 July as a result of the FAC general's retirement. It has been reported that the unexpected dismissal of the National Guard commander in Zulia is a reprisal for his repeated confiscations in the border area of Paraguachon of millions of bolivares and U.S. dollars smuggled from Colombia, money that could have been used in the alleged crime of legalization of capital or money laundering. The National Guard seized 47 billion bolivares last year from Arab businessmen who were taking money to Maracaibo to exchange it for U.S. dollars and then transfer it abroad. The Eighth Preliminary Criminal Court, through Judge Mirtha Alvarez de Rios, issued an arrest warrant for the Arab businessmen on charges of smuggling money to Venezuela. Authorities recently confiscated $400,000 and 2 million bolivares about to be smuggled into Venezuela, reportedly owned by businessman Roy Harn, of Aruba, and a purported personal friend of Commander Artuza Delgado. In addition, $3,000 were confiscated at the border. This money, and the remainder of the confiscated money, was deposited in the Banco Central de Venezuela vaults in Maracaibo. All of the confiscated money was deposited at Banco Central in the presence of Drug Prosecutor Alfonso Marquez Saavedra and Alix Boscan de Baptista, the 18th judge in charge of drugs.
