FBIS3-57800 "drweu001_p_94003" FBIS-WEU-94-001 Document Type:Daily Report 3 Jan 1994 GREECE Foreign Ministry Spokesman Rejects Turkish Aegean Views NC3012163993 Athens Elliniki Radhiofonia Radio Network in Greek 1230 GMT 30 Dec 93 NC3012163993 Athens Elliniki Radhiofonia Radio Network Language: Greek Article Type:BFN [Text] Responding to yesterday's statement by Ferhat Ataman, acting spokesman for the Turkish Foreign Ministry, on the eastern Aegean islands, particularly Limnos, Foreign Ministry spokesman Konstandinos Bikas said: With this new, unfounded, and provocative statement, the acting spokesman for the Turkish Foreign Ministry continues to cultivate a climate of tension. He added: The Greek Government has repeatedly declared that it is seeking an improvement in relations between the two countries, but something like this presupposes respect for international law and the avoidance of provocations by Turkey. The invoking of international treaties by Turkey only allows us to recall the numerous violations it has committed, which peaked with the military invasion of Cyprus and the ongoing occupation of 40 percent of the island by Turkish troops. The Foreign Ministry spokesman also noted: We should also recall the decline of the Greek minority in Istanbul, Imroz [Cokceada], and Tenedos [Bozcaada]. Regarding the more specific points in Mr. Ataman's statement, we note the following: The demilitarization of Limnos, Dardanelles Straits [Canakkale Bogazi], Imroz, and Tenedos was abolished by the Montreux Treaty of 1936. Moreover, it is recalled that, at that time, Turkey agreed--both verbally and in writing--to abolishing the demilitarization of Limnos and Samothraki. Mr. Bikas added: Greece's sovereignty in the eastern Aegean islands and the Dodecanese is absolute and does not depend on any prerequisite or conventional commitment. Referring to the measures adopted for the defense of the islands, the Foreign Ministry spokesman reiterated that these measures are in accordance with Article 50 of the UN Charter and that this was done because of Turkish provocation, as well as Turkey's invasion and occupation of Cyprus.
