FBIS3-30481 "dreeu024_k_94005" FBIS-EEU-94-024 Document Type:Daily Report 4 Feb 1994 CROATIA RSK Seeks Resumption of EU Negotiations LD0202185794 Belgrade TANJUG in English 1710 GMT 2 Feb 94 LD0202185794 Belgrade TANJUG Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Knin, Feb 2 (TANJUG) -- President of the Republic of Serb Krajina (RSK) Milan Martic and a European Union delegation, headed by the new head of the E.U. monitors in the former Yugoslavia Konstandinos Yerekostopoulos, on Wednesday called for a resumption of the negotiating process for the resolution of the conflict between the RSK and the Republic of Croatia. Martic said in a talk with the E.U. delegation in Knin, the RSK's political centre, that the Serbs in the RSK expected of the E.U. monitors only objectively to report on the struggle of the Krajina Serbs for bare survival. Martic said the only way to assist the warring sides was to enable the RSK and Croatia to separate in a civilized manner and to live as two neighbouring states. Martic said it was an illusion to insist that the Krajina Serbs and Croats live in the same state. Peace must be achieved first and a political solution sought only then, Martic said. Greek Ambassador Yerekostopoulos, for his part, said the talk was constructive. He set out that his country, which chairs the E.U. for the first six months of this year, would continue making efforts for the resumption of the peace process and its successful conclusion. The ceasefire between the RSK and Croatia was last weekend extended until February 28. The `Christmas' ceasefire agreement was reached on December 17 last year. The RSK was three years ago proclaimed on predominantly Serb populated territories of the then Croatia in response to Croatia's forcible secession from the former Yugoslav Federation and the attempt of its authorities to turn Serbs from a constituent people into a minority. Although the RSK has been a U.N. Protected Area (UNPA) since March 1992, Croatia has carried out aggression on it three times since in the hope of establishing its authority there.
