FBIS3-28413 "dreas025_d_94018" FBIS-EAS-94-025 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Feb 1994 South Korea U.S. Budget Cuts Said To Impede F-16 Imports SK0702024694 Seoul HANGUK ILBO in Korean 7 Feb 94 p 2 SK0702024694 Seoul HANGUK ILBO Language: Korean Article Type:BFN [YONHAP report from Washington] [Text] It has been learned on 6 February that the U.S. Government has excluded research funds for promoting the capacity of the airborne self protection jammer [ASPJ] from the budget for fiscal year 1995. Accordingly, this step may frustrate the ROK Government's plan to introduce U.S. F-16 fighter planes for which an enormous part of the national treasury has been earmarked. Such a measure virtually violating the ROK-U.S. contract on the airborne project was confirmed from the budget bill for fiscal year 1995 which was presented by the U.S. Defense department that day. The issue regarding contract implementation has already caused friction between the ROK and U.S. Governments. However, it is likely that this issue will create more stirs in ROK-U.S. relations regarding mutual security cooperation as newly appointed U.S. Secretary of Defense William Perry has been learned to have been deeply involved in drawing up the budget. Secretary of Defense Perry, hinting that the U.S. Defense Department cannot guarantee the quality of products manufactured by ITT, has recently put de facto pressure on the ROK to purchase the planes on a civilian level. The budget bill presented by the U.S. Defense Department does not mention a word on financial support for promoting the ASPJ's capabilites. In other words, the U.S. Defense Department has withdrawn its previous position of supporting the project to promote its capabilities which was conducted under the U.S. Navy's supervision, as the project ended in failure. Accordingly, the delivery of F-16 fighter planes which was slated for this October is expected to be delayed. In connection with the report, the ROK Defense Ministry on 6 February clarified that "the plan to bring in F-16 fighter planes in October will go according to schedule as the ASPJ is not an essential part of F-16 fighter planes but auxiliary equipment."
