FBIS3-40535 "jpjst007__l94029" JPRS-JST-94-007L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Japan 17 February 1994 Factory Automation, Robotics INCS Using Rapid Prototyping to Make Medical Models from CT Scan Data 94FE0204B Tokyo NIKKAN KOGYO SHIMBUN in Japanese 6 Dec 93 p 15 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 94FE0204B Tokyo NIKKAN KOGYO SHIMBUN Language: Japanese Article Type:CSO INCS Inc. (3-2-1 Sakado Takatsu-ku Kawasaki City, president Shinjiro Yamada, Tel. 044-819-2419) has developed software that makes it possible to use data measured by CT scans for rapid prototyping (RP). It has begun a service using that RP system to create solid models of skulls using light-hardened resin. Price: ¥150,000 each. Light-hardened resin models of skulls are beginning to be used in simulations meant to improve results of neurosurgery which requires high levels of technical skills. INCS entered this field in anticipation of increased demand. In January 1994 INCS will introduce a service using CT data to produce NC data for processing the ceramics appetite [sic] in areas deficient in skull and so on. Skull models made by RP can be very useful when they are used prior to neurosurgery for decisions on surgical order and for practice in cutting open and removal using instruments just as in actual surgery. The newly developed software adjusts for data lost due to CT scans measuring in two millimeter intervals. When CT scan data is sent to INCS, its model creation service will do everything from adjusting data to building models. It has already done this for Keio University Hospital. D-MEC (Chuo-ku Tokyo), a company 100%-owned by Japan Synthetic Rubber, also has a skull model creation service and makes 100 per year. In October the Central Social Insurance Conference (an advisory body of the Central Medical Association and the Minister of Health and Welfare) recognized the ``Plan for Surgery Based on Life-Sized Solid Models of Intestines'' -- a plan submitted by two medical institutions (including Keio University Hospital) for consideration of pre-surgery diagnosis and surgical planning using life-sized solid models -- as a new advanced form of medical treatment. Accordingly, it is anticipated that demand for RP models of skulls will increase. Process data on appetite in deficient portions of skulls is revised on the basis of CT scan data and is created after being transferred to CAM (computer aided manufacturing). Thus RP technology can be used from diagnosis to treatment.
