FBIS4-27396 "dreas105_n_94008" FBIS-EAS-94-105 Daily Report 31 May 1994 Vietnam National Assembly Meeting Reportage Continues National Assembly Meeting Reportage Continues Communique No. 5 Issued BK3105160494 Hanoi Voice of Vietnam Network in Vietnamese 1430 GMT 31 May 94 BK3105160494 Hanoi Voice of Vietnam Network Vietnamese BFN [Text] The Office of the National Assembly has issued Communique No. 5, indicating that the National Assembly held a plenary session at the conference hall on 31 May. National Assembly Vice Chairman Nguyen Ha Phan directed the morning session, at which the National Assembly continued debating the draft law on the transfer of land use rights. First, on behalf of the agency in charge of drafting the report on the views contributed by National Assembly deputies, Finance Minister Ho Te further clarified a number of issues relating to the draft law on the transfer of land use rights. Afterward, a total of 17 deputies aired their views on those clauses and sections of the draft law on which there are still differing views. The deputies were: Phung Van Thu of Ha Tay, Trieu Thi Nai of Ha Giang, Dang Quoc Tien of Bac Thai, Le Van Tu of Thanh Hoa, Nguyen Duong Hoang of Nghe An, Nguyen Thi Thu of Ha Tinh, Vo An Bang of Dac Lac, Nguyen Ba Thanh of Quang Nam-Da Nang, Tran Quang Ngoc of Nam Ha, Nguyen Van Thanh of Long An, Do Hoang Hai of Ho Chi Minh City, Ha Quang Du of Tuyen Quang, Do Quoc Thang of Lao Cai, Nguyen Viet Hong of Minh Hai, Pham Van Can of Hai Hung, Bui Cong Minh of Tra Vinh, and Vi Xuan Thanh of Lang Son. The views expressed by the National Assembly deputies further clarified issues relating to: areas that need to be amended, tax computation criteria and tax brackets, tax payment, responsibilities of tax payers, tax exemption and reduction, changes in land use purposes that go with the transfer of land use rights, action against violations, and time frame for law enforcement. The afternoon session was directed by National Assembly Chairman Nong Duc Manh. The National Assembly heard the following: -- Phan Ngoc Tuong, minister and chief of the Government Committee for Cadre Organization, delivered a report on the draft law on organization of people's councils and people's committees, revised, and the law on the election of people's councillors, revised. -- Ha Manh Tri, chairman of National Assembly Judiciary Committee, delivered an investigative report on the drafts of these two laws. On 1 June, the National Assembly deputies will participate in group discussions and then hold a debate at the conference hall on the draft law on organization of people's councils and people's committees, revised, as well as on the law on the election of people's councillors, revised.
