FBIS4-124 "drafr063_c_94014" FBIS-AFR-94-063 Daily Report 31 Mar 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA Factors Affecting Voting Outcome Assessed Factors Affecting Voting Outcome Assessed MB0104095294 Johannesburg THE STAR in English 31 Mar 94 p 15 MB0104095294 Johannesburg THE STAR English BFN [Unattributed article: "Estimate of Election Outcome (Based on past and present polls from HSRC [Human Sciences Research Council], Markinor, MRA [Market Research Africa] and MMR [Marketing and Media Research])"] [Text] LOYALTY The PAC [Pan-Africanist Congress] may not have a huge number of supporters, but those who say they will vote for it are certainly the most loyal. Of those who were asked if they would stand by their choice "no matter what" 97 percent of PAC supporters said they would. Worrying for the DP [Democratic Party] must be the result which shows that only 59 percent of its supporters are certain nothing can change their minds. CHANGE What would make people who have made up their minds switch their vote? Nothing, said 88 percent. If the party did something I strongly disagreed with, say 4 percent. If another party made promises or policies I strongly agreed with, say 4 percent. If someone threatened or intimidated me, say 2 percent. If parents, partner or friends sway me, say 1 percent. A few gave reasons such as if their party withdrew, if minority groups were disregarded, and if their party changed its policies or broke its promises. UNCERTAINTY Why are people uncertain about their choice? The two main reasons are uninterest and ignorance. These were the answers by people who are still undecided about their choice: I'm not interested in politics or the election (25 percent, who were more likely to be coloureds or Indians). I don't know what is going on politically (19 percent, coloureds, Indians, lower income, over-50s). I like more than one party and can't decide which to vote for (15 percent, upper income whites). I don't know what each of the parties stands for (12 percent), and I don't like or trust any of the parties or leaders (9 percent). Minor reasons were: I don't know how to vote; I don't know where to vote; my vote won't make a difference; promises are not being kept; have not decided yet; parties are changing their policies and, lots can still happen. FREEDOM FRONT, 7 PERCENT? General Constand Viljoen's Freedom Front (FF), the electoral vehicle of conservative whites, is the wild card in next month's election. A late entrant to the race, the front's showing is unpredictable as fieldwork was conducted before it decided to take part in the election. However, if we assume a large proportion of CP [Conservative Party] and some white IFP and most Volksfront [National Front] supporters will vote for it, the FF could get as much as 7 percent of the vote. This is not a scientific research prediction but only an estimation. NATAL Natal is the area where those who want a free and fair election just do not know what is going to happen. Will most people be able to vote? How much violence and intimidation will there be? Will voting in all areas be declared valid after the election? There are all these doubts, but of those who were prepared to name a party 85 percent had no doubt they would stick to this party "no matter what happens". Only 54 percent of people polled were prepared to name their choice. The remainder were either not sure who to vote for (19 percent), not prepared to say (15 percent) or said they could not or would not vote (12 percent). Of all those polled in Natal, 22 percent said they would vote for the ANC, 16 percent for the NP [National Party], 12 percent for the IFP and 4 percent for "others". The overall result could be greatly effected by those who go to the polls and those who stay away either because of intimidation and violence or because they want to vote for the IFP and no other party. The main findings: No dramatic shift in the past three months THE ANC Has shown a 5 percent loss, mainly from Indians who have switched to the NP. Another big loss is in the upper-income category. THE NP Is recovering some of the support it lost over the past year or so and has grown (about 6 percent) mainly at the expense of the ANC. THE PAC Has shown a 1 percent gain in black and coloured communities, the 25-35 age group and in the Cape and Free State. THE FREEDOM FRONT Is difficult to assess as fieldwork was carried out before it decided to take part in the election and, therefore, there is no shift pattern. THE DP Has remained static with moderate gains among coloureds. Of all the main parties it showed the least loyal supporters.
