FBIS3-5350 "dreas044_c_94016" FBIS-EAS-94-044 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Mar 1994 North Korea Paper Stresses `Checking Japan's Nuclear Armament' SK0503104394 Pyongyang KCNA in English 1012 GMT 5 Mar 94 SK0503104394 Pyongyang KCNA Language: English Article Type:BFN ["NODONG SINMUN Calls for Halt to Japan's Nuclear Armament"-- KCNA headline] [Text] Pyongyang, March 5 (KCNA) -- To hold in check Japan's nuclear armament is an urgent matter related to the existence of mankind, says NODONG SINMUN today. The analyst says: Japan plans to put into operation Monju, its first fast breeder reactor, in the near future. This is its open scheme to produce nuclear weapons any time by securing large quantities of plutonium by itself. Japan has already stockpiled 26 tons of plutonium and developed the electronic destructive device and other devices and technology of atomic bombs and even means of long-range nuclear delivery. The promotion of Japan's nuclear armament in full scale with the connivance of the West is, in actuality, a matter which must be taken most seriously in the world at present. This is, first of all, because Japan's nuclear armament is an undisguised challenge to the desire of mankind to live in a peaceful world without nuclear threat and is a big obstacle to the building of a nuclear-free, peaceful world. Checking Japan's nuclear armament has become an urgent matter also because the Japanese reactionaries are attempting to gratify their dominationist ambition with nuclear weapons. In Japan today, revanchism for revenging Japan's defeat in the past has raised its head and ultra-nationalism, a reactionary ideological trend which had constituted the ideological basis of Japanese militarism, is being openly fostered. It is not difficult to imagine the grave consequences that would be entailed by the nuclear armament of Japan upon the cause of peace in Asia and the world. The main target of the nuclear threat from Japan is, needless to say, our country and other Asian countries. The Japanese reactionary ruling circles are revealing their aggressive designs on our country more openly. The world people who love peace must join in the struggle to frustrate Japan's nuclear armament.
