FBIS3-56522 "drsov011_u_94005" FBIS-SOV-94-011 Document Type:Daily Report 18 Jan 1994 Latvia `Definite Compromise' Reached PM1401162594 Moscow IZVESTIYA in Russian 14 Jan 94 First Edition p 3 PM1401162594 Moscow IZVESTIYA Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Irina Litvinova report: "Russian Radar Station Will Probably Continue Operating in Latvia for Another Few Years"] [Text] Riga -- The latest round of interstate talks between the Latvian and Russian delegations has finished in Riga. Latvian observers are acknowledging that "some progress" has been made. The main document concerning the withdrawal of Russian troops from Latvian territory has basically been prepared over more than two years of work by diplomats and military specialists. Until recently the stumbling block remained the Russian military installation in the Latvian settlement of Skrunda -- a radar station which forms part of the overall missile early warning system. Skrunda has been the central issue at three rounds of interstate talks. On this occasion, it seems, the two sides were able to reach a definite compromise. I am couching this affirmation in deliberately loose wording: It is clear that both sides could still make some adjustment to their positions. Thus, for example, coordinating the time frame for operating and dismantling the station will be a complex task, since Latvia is saying three years plus one, whereas Russia is insisting on a total of five years. The talks took place against the background of an incident that made the work more difficult and which occurred 10 January in Riga, when two Russian generals were arrested. On 12 January the head of the Russian delegation, Special Envoy Sergey Zotov, told your IZVESTIYA correspondent that he thought it would be possible to resume the talks that had been broken off once the servicemen had been released, once the blockade of Russian installations had been lifted, and once the Latvian leadership had submitted an official apology. Envoy Zotov regards these events as a possible rehearsal for the seizure of Russian civilian installations, and for this reason the delegation stressed once again that the radar at Skrunda can only be used for military purposes. Deputy Foreign Minister Martins Virsis, head of the Latvian delegation, said that the Latvian view was as follows: The radar at Skrunda is a military establishment under civilian control. In any case, Virsis stressed, the station will not be given the status of a military base.
