FBIS4-47247 "jpust012___94001" JPRS-UST-94-012 JPRS Science & Technology Central Eurasia 6 April 1994 SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY POLICY Russian Presidential Edict on State Science Centers Russian Presidential Edict on State Science Centers 947A0042A Moscow ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA in Russian 6 Apr 94 p 4 947A0042A Moscow ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA Russian CSO [Article by V. Chernomyrdin, chairman, Government of the Russian Federation: ``Implementation of Edict of President of the Russian Federation, No. 939, 22 June 1993,'' ``On State Science Centers in the Russian Federation''] [Text] In implementation of the edict of the president of the Russian Federation dated 22 June 1993, entitled ``On State Science Centers in the Russian Federation'' and for the purposes of extending state support to the activity of these centers, the Government of the Russian Federation decrees: 1. Adoption of the proposal of the Interdepartmental Coordination Commission for Scientific and Technical Policy on awarding the status of state science center of the Russian Federation to the Central Aerohydrodynamics Institute imeni Professor N. Ye. Zhukovskiy, the Physicochemical Scientific Research Center imeni L. Ya. Karpov, the Central Aviation Engine Building Institute imeni P. I. Varanov, the Physics and Power Engineering Institute, the All-Russian Aviation Materials Scientific Research Institute, the Vektor Scientific Production Association, the All-Russian Electrical Engineering Institute imeni V. I. Lenin, the State Aviation Systems Scientific Research Institute, the State Scientific Research Institute of Genetics and Selection of Industrial Microorganisms, the Flight Research Institute imeni M. M. Gromov and the Nuclear Reactors Scientific Research Institute. 2. Approval of the proposed: - Regulations on the conditions for state support of the Science Center of the Russian Federation -- the Central Aerohydrodynamics Institute imeni Professor N. Ye. Zhukovskiy; - Regulations on the conditions for state support of the State Science Center of the Russian Federation -- the Physicochemical Scientific Research Institute imeni L. Ya. Karpov; - Regulations on the conditions for state support of the State Science Center of the Russian Federation -- the Central Aviation Engine Building Institute imeni P. I. Varanov; - Regulations on the conditions for state support of the State Science Center of the Russian Federation -- the Physics and Power Engineering Institute; - Regulations on the conditions for state support of the State Science Center of the Russian Federation -- the All-Russian Aviation Materials Scientific Research Institute; - Regulations on the conditions for state support of the State Science Center of the Russian Federation -- the Vektor Scientific Production Association; - Regulations on the conditions for state support of the State Science Center of the Russian Federation -- the All-Union Electrical Engineering Institute imeni V. I. Lenin; - Regulations on the conditions for state support of the State Science Center of the Russian Federation -- the State Aviation Systems Scientific Research Institute; - Regulations on the conditions for state support of the State Science Center of the Russian Federation -- the State Scientific Research Institute of Genetics and Selection of Industrial Microorganisms; - Regulations on the conditions for state support of the State Science Center of the Russian Federation -- the Flight Research Institute imeni M. M. Gromov; - Regulations on the conditions for state support of the State Science Center of the Russian Federation -- the Nuclear Reactors Scientific Research Institute. Note. The enumerated regulations are not published.
