FBIS4-19262 "drweu073_n_94006" FBIS-WEU-94-073 Daily Report 11 Mar 1994 NORDIC COUNTRIES Finland * East German T-72's Seen Needing Extensive Work * East German T-72's Seen Needing Extensive Work 94EN0282B Helsinki HELSINGIN SANOMAT in Finnish 11 Mar 94 p 12 94EN0282B Helsinki HELSINGIN SANOMAT Finnish CSO [Article by Riitta Vainio: "Used T-72 Tanks Need Extensive Renovation"] [Text] Niinisalo--The used East German T-72 tanks left over in East Germany and purchased by Finland are in need of extensive renovation. According to general staff estimates, it would cost more to thoroughly overhaul the tanks than it would to buy new ones. So far, new radio equipment has been added to the Russian-made tanks in Finland. In the summer of 1992 Finland bought not quite 100 used T-72 battle tanks from Germany. Prior to that, Finland had bought the same kind of tanks from Russia, which has already updated its own tanks by adding shielding, among other things, to them. Finland Was Biggest Buyer Germany sold the tanks because they were not compatible with the NATO equipment used by the German armed forces. It would have cost nearly as much to scrap the tanks in Germany as Finland paid for them. Finland used to be the biggest buyer of East German weapons. According to the experts, the T-72 is slow in comparison with the latest Western tanks and its cannon has a shorter range. The most recent comparison was made during the Persian Gulf war. According to the General Staff Ground Forces Department, there is not yet a concrete plan for renovating them. However, a long repair list has been outlined. The most important item is an increase in firing effectiveness. The tank's ability to operate in the dark has to be improved, its armor has to be increased, its communications equipment replaced, and its shielding improved. The general staff nevertheless emphasizes that the T-72 is fully serviceable even in its present condition. The purchase of these used tanks from Germany two years ago was justified, among other reasons, by the fact that the tanks were in good condition and that some of them were later models than the T-72's previously purchased from Russia.
