FBIS3-50820 "drlat006_k_94003" FBIS-LAT-94-006 Document Type:Daily Report 10 Jan 1994 SOUTH AMERICA Argentina New Under Secretary for State Intelligence Appointed PY0801174694 Buenos Aires CLARIN in Spanish 5 Jan 94 p 5 PY0801174694 Buenos Aires CLARIN Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Article by Jorge Grecco] [Excerpts] The long-standing friendship between Vice Admiral Juan Carlos Anchezar, retired, and the Anzorregui family [Hugo Anzorregui is SIDE's secretary], and his excellent personal relationship with Eduardo Bauza [secretary general of the presidency], were instrumental in catapulting him into the Secretariat for State Intelligence (SIDE) as Anzorregui's second-in- command. The incumbent Interior Ministry under secretary for intelligence is Police Superintendent Jose Roberto Scopa, retired, who will leave on 1 February. [passage omitted] "Well what do you think of that, Jorge?" was what Vice Adm. Anchezar said to the brother of SIDE's secretary, Jorge Anzorregui, when he was offered Scopa's post. Jorge Anzorregui, a criminal lawyer who goes about the corridors of the courthouse invariably greeting whomsoever he comes across, has been a friend of Vice Adm. Anchezar for some years now. Anzorregui advised him to accept his bother's offer. SIDE's secretary met with the vice admiral in Punta del Este on 3 January. There, after coming to an agreement, the admiral accepted the offer. The road traveled by the members of Argentina's intelligence service community is well known to Vice Adm. Anchezar, a Navy pilot who failed by an inch to be appointed chief of the Joint General Staff when Italo Luder was defense minister at the beginning of the Menem administration. Having been outmaneuvered by Admiral Emilio Osses in this endeavor, Vice Adm. Anchezar retired. In any case, he was awarded a consolation prize -- he was nominated director of State Shipyards and Naval Factories (AFNE). Vice Adm. Anchezar had for several years held the post of deputy chief of the Navy Intelligence Department, located on the fifth floor of the Libertad building -- the Navy General Staff headquarters.
