FBIS4-44402 "jpcar035___94022" JPRS-CAR-94-035 JPRS China 3 March 1994 REGIONAL NORTHWEST REGION Xinjiang Autonomous Regional Chairmen Biographies Xinjiang Autonomous Regional Chairmen Biographies 94CM0252A Urumqi XINJIANG RIBAO in Chinese 3 Mar 94 p 2 94CM0252A Urumqi XINJIANG RIBAO Chinese CSO [Article: "The Newly Elected Xinjiang Regional Chairman and Vice Chairman"] [Text] Abulaiti Abudurexiti's Short Bio Abulaiti Abudurexiti, male. He is of Uygur nationality and was born in March 1942; a native of Xinjiang's Yining. He began party work in September 1965 and joined the party in July 1960. He is college-educated and has attained senior engineer rank. Over the years, he has been the autonomous region's Construction Prospecting Design Institute technician, prefessional group leader, engineer, and vice president. He has also served as Xinjiang's Planning Commission vice chairman, party organization member, and party organization secretary; Xinjiang regional vice chairman, acting chairman, and the autonomous regional party committee deputy secretary. Yusufu Aisha's Short Bio Yusufu Aisha, male. He is of Uygur nationality and was born in July 1939; a native of Xinjiang's Shanshan. He bagan party work in October 1955 and joined the party in December 1958. He is college-educated. Over the years, he has been Shanshan County's Cotton, Cotton Yarn, and Cloth Company's security administrator, Shanshan County's Lianmuqin Commune CLY Committee secretary and propaganda administrator; Shanshan County party committee organizational department administrator, county public security department's party organization secretary and deputy department head; county foreign trade department's reform commission chairman and party organization secretary; Shanshan County party committee deputy secretary, county reform commission chairman, and county party committee secretary; Turpan prefectural party committee deputy secretary and Shanshan County party committee secretary, Turpan administrative department's special officer, Turpan prefectural party committee secretary; Urumqi City's deputy mayor, acting mayor, mayor, and city party committee deputy secretary. He was a deputy in the Seventh National People's Congress.
