FBIS4-18173 "drweu062_o_94003" FBIS-WEU-94-062 Daily Report 31 Mar 1994 CYPRUS Lamb's `Game of Words' Questioned Lamb's `Game of Words' Questioned NC3103084294 Nicosia ALITHIA in Greek 31 Mar 94 p 1 NC3103084294 Nicosia ALITHIA Greek BFN [Editorial: "The Game of Words"--all punctuation as published] [Excerpts] We do not underestimate the last-minute effort by Robert Lamb, U.S. State Department special representative on Cyprus, to salvage the talks on the confidence-building measures. However, we cannot understand the game of words with which he covers and expresses the Turkish intransigence. Yesterday we heard Mr. Lamb describe his meeting with [Turkish Cypriot Leader] Rauf Denktas as "productive." And this, because the Turkish Cypriot leader "appeared to understand some things better!!".... We also heard yesterday Ankara's statement that the European Union cannot help with a solution to the Cyprus problem. This is because, supposedly, the European Union considers the Turkish Cypriot side non-existent!!.... In both cases, the words do not express reality. On the contrary, they twist, violate, and tamper with the rules of dialogue on internationally acceptable principles. Specifically: 1. We cannot accept Lamb's meeting with Denktas as "productive," since it did not produce the outcome advised by the UN Security Council permanent members within a specified timeframe for "achievement of an agreement without delay." Today is the expiration date of this effort and there are no indications of a change in Denktas' position, which leads to a new impasse.... It is therefore natural that we do not expect any last-minute surprises because these moves must be considered an effort to dispel the negative impressions of the other side to avoid international condemnation. Denktas was in a position many years ago to realize what today he appears to "understand" to gain international tolerance and extension. Denktas' failure to abide by the resolutions and advice of the Security Council has exceeded all limits. [passage omitted] We are right when we talk about a bad game of words and provocative mockery. If the Security Council respects itself and its decisions and deadlines, it ought to change its policy. Otherwise, the impasse will continue and international tolerance will be associated with acceptance [of faits accomplis].
