FBIS3-21658 "jptdd009__l94056" JPRS-TDD-94-009-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Narcotics 28 February 1994 EAST ASIA PHILIPPINES NBI Director Discusses Possible `Test Case' for Death Penalty 94WD0163A Manila BALITA in Tagalog 28 Dec 93 pp 1, 2 94WD0163A Manila BALITA Language: Tagalog Article Type:CSO [Text] Yesterday Director Epimaco Velasco, of the National Bureau of Investigation (NBI), stated that a test case for the death penalty will be the case which they will bring against two notorious drug traffickers believed to be the source of 200 million pesos worth of shabu confiscated by the Philippine Navy from a fishing boat sometime ago. In this connection, also yesterday, the owner of F/B Pamela Blizette, a fishing boat from which was confiscated 8.5 kilos of shabu, surrendered to the NBI. Torcuato Cunanan, 60, a broker residing at 758 Bagong Silang, San Nicolas, Binondo, Manila, personally went to the Narcotics Division of the NBI after he learned that the NBI was looking for him in connection with the above-mentioned case. Most likely, Cunanan denied any knowledge of the seizure of the shabu and emphasized that he was no longer the owner of the fishing vessel, since he sold it in June 1992. Cunanan pointed to a certain Alfredo Tiongco, who supposedly bought the said fishing boat. However, the NBI will continue to investigate him, since the 10 bags of shabu which were in the fishing boat were consigned to him. With regard to his statement that he sold the boat to Tiongco in 1992, the NBI has learned that in the last registration of the fishing boat, he (Cunanan) is still listed as the owner. He (Cunanan) also stated that Tiongco was a former customer of his brokerage firm. From the record check of the NBI, it was learned that a standing arrest warrant has been issued for Cunanan and Tiongco for violating customs laws, that is, for smuggling. The warrant was issued in 1988. According to Director Velasco, the case against these two men is a possible test case for the death penalty.
