FBIS3-48283 "dreas015__a94002" FBIS-EAS-94-015-A Document Type:Daily Report 24 January 1994 ANNEX Japan Political Turmoil's Effect on U.S. Talks Viewed OW2201025094 Tokyo Nikkei Telecom Database in Japanese 22 Jan 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY OW2201025094 Tokyo Nikkei Telecom Database Language: Japanese Article Type:BFN [From MAINICHI SHIMBUN in Japanese 22 Jan 94 Morning Edition] [Text] With the political reform bills having been rejected by the House of Councillors, the outlook for the Japan-U.S. summit on 21 February, as well as for the ongoing Japan-U.S. economic framework talks, looks uncertain. A vice-ministerial-level meeting is set for 23 January in Washington to discuss government procurements and other matters, but negotiations in all sectors are experiencing very rough sailing over issues like U.S. demands for numerical targets. Meanwhile, regarding to the impact which the current political chaos will have on the talks, there are now two contrasting views emerging within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs [MOFA] -- one predicts "the United States will push hard, becoming despaired of the Hosokawa government," and the other says "they will soften their position out of consideration for the chaotic political situation in Japan." The United States is now beginning to show irritation over the negotiations which are making slow progress. Secretary of Treasury Lloyd Bentsen will arrive in Japan on 23 January. U.S. Trade Representative Micky Kantor has expressed his intention to visit Japan. The country is calling on Japan to make a political decision to reach a breakthrough in the talks. Meanwhile Hiroshi Kumagai, minister of international trade and industry, insists "there is no discrepancy in views between the government and bureaucrats." But according to a senior MOFA official, there are increasing views in Japan that because of the problem raised by the political reform issue, "it is now possible Japan's political alternatives will narrow." An official of the Ministry of International Trade and Industry was perplexed, saying: "If revised political reform bills are promptly adopted, there will be no major impact on the negotiations. But if this situation leads to a weakening of the coalition government by the Social Democratic Party of Japan breaking up, or leads to the fall of Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa from power, there is no telling what will happen to the talks."
