FBIS3-10266 "drlat043_c_94006" FBIS-LAT-94-043 Document Type:Daily Report 4 Mar 1994 MEXICO Human Rights Official: Amnesty International Report `Hasty' PA0403031994 Mexico City LA JORNADA in Spanish 1 Mar 94 p 10 PA0403031994 Mexico City LA JORNADA Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Report by Gloria Perez Mendoza] [Text] Toluca, Mexico, 28 Feb -- Jorge Madrazo Cuellar, president of the National Human Rights Commission [CNDH], has termed the observations by Amnesty International (AI) that the CNDH is an organization with no authority that is dependent on the federal executive as "hasty and politically motivated." In addition, Madrazo Cuellar stressed that the CNDH just began investigating, from the compiled evidence, the events that occurred at the Morelia ejido in Chiapas. He reiterated that the forensic experts and criminologists are working to reach a conclusion. After attending the annual report presentation by Mireilla Roccatti Velasquez, president of the State Human Rights Commission (CEDH), Madrazo Cuellar said that regarding the threats, intimidations, and burning of property near San Carlos Hospital in Altamirano, the governor of Chiapas "decided to launch a preliminary investigation, and we will be expecting the results." The human rights ombudsman [preceding word in English] stated that in certain areas of Chiapas some cattlemen have "manipulated" the population to protest against the work of the CNDH. He added: "They are trying to promote their spurious and illegitimate interests." Madrazo Cuellar reported that there have been new reports regarding EZLN [Zapatist National Liberation Army] actions, above all cattle rustling, invasion of rural properties, and burning of peasant and Indian homes in the area," [no opening quotation mark as published] and he said that there were no reports against the Mexican Army. During the report presentation by Mireilla Roccatti, Governor Emilio Chuayffet Chemor called for the decentralization of the state organization and the creation of municipal commissions on human rights in the 121 municipalities of the state. Additionally, Roccatti noted in her report that of the 2,492 complaints received as of 31 January, 1,693 have been investigated. This represents a progress of 67 percent in resolving cases.
