FBIS4-62592 "drsov096cc_94006" FBIS-SOV-94-096 Daily Report 18 May 1994 INTERREGIONAL AFFAIRS ITAR-TASS Carries Press Review for 18 May ITAR-TASS Carries Press Review for 18 May LD1805044994 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 0435 GMT 18 May 94 LD1805044994 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN ["Press Review" -- ITAR-TASS headline] [Text] Moscow May 18 ITAR-TASS -- Negotiations in Moscow on the settlement of the Karabakh conflict, in which Azerbaijan, Armenia and Nagorno-Karabakh took part, is one of the leading topics in today's national press in Russia. KRASNAYA ZVEZDA says the ceasefire orders issued by the defence ministers of the three negotiating parties mark the beginning of implementation in practice of the first stage of the process which is expected to put an end to the bloodletting conflict. The newspaper stresses that the agreement between the three caucasian parties was achieved "through the mediation of Russian Defence Minister, Army General Pavel Grachev". NEZAVISIMAYA GAZETA points out that further negotiations were regrettably disrupted by the refusal of the Azeri Defence Minister, Mamedrafi Mamedov to sign the document on ceasefire. The minister left for Baku without as much as saying goodbye. "Many observers believe that after the Azeri delegation refused to sign the Moscow accord, the Azeri leadership will continue to pursue the old policy and seek to rectify the situation at the front with the help of new offensive", the newspaper said. "The hope for peace in Karabakh has proved futile", the headline of the comment reads. ROSSIYSKIYE VESTI comment on the resignation of centrist Sergey Shakhray as the minister of nationalities and regional policy and concludes that "another reshuffling is taking place at the top". The newspaper notes that attempts had repeatedly been made earlier to divorce Shakhray and "the nationality cause which he had espoused". The newspaper finds surprising the promotion to the cabinet of Nikolay Travkin, the leader of the Duma faction of the Democratic Russian Party. The daily suggests that he is likely to replace Vice-Premier Aleksandr Zaveryukha, "a most influential figure in the government", who is in charge of reforms as a whole and of agricultural sector in particular. TRUD is baffled by the fact that Sergey Shakhray "failed to clear up his own understanding of the reasons behind his sacking and evaded direct answers to direct questions from journalists". TRUD concludes that "traditions seem to have remained the same on the Russian political olympus which existed on the Soviet one: The veil of secrecy guards closely whatever is happening in the tope echelons of power, where everything is not half so idyllic as Russian citizens would like to believe". RABOCHAYA TRIBUNA cites several versions of the scenario behind the firing of Sergey Shakhray as the minister of nationalities. One is that Nikolay Yegorov has been appointed to replace Shakhray in order "to weaken the political influence of Shakhray as the leader of the Party of Russian Unity and Accord (PRES). ROSSIYSKIYE VESTI publish an interview with President Martti Ahtisaari of Finland who told a group of Russian journalists in the eve of his departure for Moscow that the present stage in relations between Russia and Finland is particularly good and stressed that his visit to Russia would facilitate their further development. KOMSOMOLSKAYA PRAVDA publishes an article about President Boris Yeltsin by vice-president of the Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs Valentin Feodorov, who used to be deputy economics minister of Russia. "This is my third article about Boris Yeltsin, written just as the previous ones, from the positions of his critically-minded supporter", Feodorov says. He points out that "people are unable to keep pace with soaring prices, they eat less and worse and die prematurely, as they carry the burden of the price liberation which is a "grandiose affair". PRAVDA offers an interview with Duma Deputy Anatoliy Lukyanov, who declares that "the (December 1993) referendum in the country was illegitimate: the Constitution was supported by less than one-third of the voters. The rest were against the policy pursued by the president's team. It means that the Yeltsin Constitution cannot serve as the basis for advancement".
