FBIS3-11360 "drlat054_h_94001" FBIS-LAT-94-054 Document Type:Daily Report 16 Mar 1994 Honduras Armed Forces Accept Budget Cut, Not Volunteer Force PA1903030394 Tegucigalpa EL PERIODICO DE HONDURAS in Spanish 16 Mar 94 p 5 PA1903030394 Tegucigalpa EL PERIODICO DE HONDURAS Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Text] The Honduran Armed Forces said they would accept a budget reduction, an eventual privatization of Hondutel [Honduran Telecommunications Enterprise], and any other presidential initiative, but they also clearly established their opposition to an all-voluntary military service. General Luis Alonso Discua Elvir acknowledged that health and education are priorities and expressed the Armed Forces' willingness to support President Reina's decision to implement the social assistance program he promised the Honduran people. The planned 10-percent reduction of the Armed Forces' 270 million lempira budget represents a 27 million-lempira cut which, according to Discua Elvir, will negatively affect the military's community programs. Right now the military is engaged in assistance programs to improve education, environmental protection, and health, which includes the vaccination of the canine population. Regarding an eventual privatization of Hondutel, the military chief said: "This is a profitable enterprise that has been very good for the government. Any eventual privatization should be carefully analyzed." The Armed Forces, however, acknowledge that "the final decision rests with the executive branch." Discua Elvir announced that he will ask the Comptroller General's Office to audit the offices managed by the Armed Forces, something that has been done since 1990. The military commander reiterated his opposition to military service becoming an all-volunteer institution because he believes it would be the end of the Armed Forces. Gen. Discua is of the opinion that military service must be "constitutional and educational" (obligatory), but a presidential promise describes it as "voluntary and educational." On this point, as on others, the military chief concedes that the final decision is in the hands of the president of Honduras.
