FBIS3-47561 "dreas010_a_94004" FBIS-EAS-94-010 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Jan 1994 NORTHEAST ASIA Japan Garten Says Framework Negotiators `Miles Apart' OW1401093794 Tokyo KYODO in English 0904 GMT 14 Jan 94 OW1401093794 Tokyo KYODO Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Tokyo, Jan. 14 KYODO -- A senior U.S. trade negotiator said Friday [14 January] that the United States and Japan are miles apart on what the fundamental objectives are in their bilateral trade framework talks. Jeffrey Garten, U.S. undersecretary of commerce for international trade, told the Foreign Correspondents' Club of Japan, "It is no secret that these negotiations are moving slowly, no secret that the U.S. and Japan are extremely far apart on virtually all the issues." Garten said that while the U.S. is looking for ways to measure progress and concrete results in the opening of Japan's markets, Japanese negotiators want to focus on process and further studies, resisting the setting of any measuring criteria. He said the question of measurement, however it is defined, is certainly seen differently by Japanese negotiators and the U.S. side. As to auto trade, a priority sector of the framework talks, Garten said, "There is not even an agreement on the nature of the problem." "We haven't moved an inch," he said, indicating subcabinet-level talks this week have not made any progress. The U.S. side has taken up trade imbalance and the question of market access as the main problems, but Japanese negotiators have insisted that Japan's markets are open and the problem is a lack of effort by American companies, Garten said. Garten said, however, there will be maximum effort on both sides to make the negotiations a success since the results in February will color U.S.-Japan relations for some time. "This is for the (Bill) Clinton administration a first real sort of benchmark of U.S.-Japanese trade relations," he said. He said he was not sure how the negotiations will turn out, but expressed hope that the pieces fall into places as they get close to the deadline of February 11 when Clinton and Japanese Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa meet on the issue. "The history of U.S.-Japan negotiations that I know shows that there's a lot more progress if the top leaders get involved," he said.
