FBIS4-44657 "jpest011__l94042" JPRS-EST-94-011-L JPRS Science & Technology Europe 3 June 1994 WEST EUROPE NUCLEAR R&D European Parliament Budget Ruling Threatens JET Project European Parliament Budget Ruling Threatens JET Project BR2903125994 London PHYSICS WORLD in English Mar 94 p 7--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY BR2903125994 London PHYSICS WORLD English BFN [Sally Croft article: "Employment: JET Goes Critical"] [Excerpts] Moves by the European Parliament to remedy the plight of British scientists working on the JET [Joint European Torus] European fusion project near Oxford could lead to the experimental programme grinding to a halt in April, and closure of the project later this year, if a long-standing industrial dispute is not resolved. In an attempt to force the hand of the European Commission, the Parliament voted in December to hold back a third of the 1994 European fusion budget plus ECU2 million (£1.6 million) to compensate British staff for discrimination they have suffered in the past. The Parliament said it is withholding the ECU59 million until the parties concerned are seen to be cooperating with goodwill and determination to resolve the underlying problems. [passage omitted] As the JET project draws to its scheduled close in 1996 and the AEA [Atomic Energy Agency] heads for privatization, the 220 British staff are becoming increasingly concerned about their chances of getting a job on JET's successor project, ITER [International Thermonuclear Experimental Reactor], or elsewhere in the Commission -- external candidates are only permitted when there are no suitable internal applicants. On top of that, the AEA says that its staff must resign before applying for Euratom posts, a position endorsed by JET's ruling council. "Out of the 50 engineers and scientists appointed to ITER, so far about 20 people from JET have been selected, but only one of them is British -- and he's an administrator," said one senior JET physicist. [passage omitted] The European Parliament's decision to withhold one-third of the 1994 fusion budget is now beginning to bite. Although the funding freeze has been spread across all the Commission's fusion laboratories, JET is suffering a shortage of ECU28 million out of its ECU100 million budget. "Things are nearing a critical stage," says George O'Hara, director for administration at JET. "From 1 April we will have to start laying off staff and making other cuts." [passage omitted] At JET, O'Hara says, "it's impossible to be either optimistic or pessimistic at this stage, but I don't believe the project will come to an end because of this wrangle." But Andreas Pott [European Parliament Budget Committee secretary] sounds a note of warning: "If they try to keep the project going by saving money, they will be creating a very bad precedent for the next project, when it comes to justifying how much money is needed."
