FBIS3-45350 "drchi011_w_94001" FBIS-CHI-94-011 Document Type:Daily Report 18 Jan 1994 HONG KONG & MACAO Hong Kong Patten: Reform `Discharging British Sovereignty' HK1701140294 Hong Kong Television Broadcasts Limited in English 1200 GMT 17 Jan 93 HK1701140294 Hong Kong Television Broadcasts Limited Language: English Article Type:BFN [From "The News at 8:00" program--passages within quotation marks recorded] [Text] The governor, Chris Patten, will be flying to London tomorrow for high-level talks with cabinet ministers on the Hong Kong question. Speaking after an opening ceremony today, Patten stressed that Britain will not abandon what it believes to be right for the territory. That is despite China's threat to revamp after 1997 all electoral arrangements unilaterally laid down by Britain before the takeover. Linda Li reports: [Li] "Governor Chris Patten remains as defiant as he is, though many question how Hong Kong will benefit from his electoral reform proposals when they will last only up to mid-1997." [Patten] "It isn't a very persuasive argument to say, that if China chooses to or says it will break all the windows after 1997, that we should break them in 1994 and 1995." [Li] "It's discharging British sovereignty, Patten stresses, to put in place a fair and reasonable set of electoral arrangements for Hong Kong's district organizations and Legislative Council [Legco]. Talking about his trip to London tomorrow, Patten believes the British ministers will want to hear his views on when to table the second portion of his political reform bill in Legco. The main consideration, he says, is to proceed in a sensible, step- by-step manner, and the priority is to get the present bill onto the statue book. In a separate interview with the Singapore Broadcasting Corporation, Patten said he would be disappointed if Legco didn't pass his bill." [Patten] "I certainly don't intend to put proposals to the Legislative Council which I would like the Legislative Council to water down or change in some way. That's not political leadership." [Li] "While Patten appears to be a tiger in a battlefield, he's willing to bow out gracefully from the political scene in three and a half years' time." [Patten] "And I rather doubt whether there is a life in politics -- in British politics for me after this. After this I will be 52, 53. On present likelihood, it would be between elections. I wouldn't be able to fight an election for another two or three years after that. I think I will be looking to other forms of public service after this job." [Li] "But until then, the governor vows to stay on until June 30, 1997. Linda Li, TVB News."
