FBIS3-58335 "drweu008_h_94010" FBIS-WEU-94-008 Document Type:Daily Report 12 Jan 1994 GERMANY Russian Promises to Russian Germans Not Kept AU1101162494 Frankfurt/Main FRANKFURTER ALLGEMEINE in German 11 Jan 94 p 3 AU1101162494 Frankfurt/Main FRANKFURTER ALLGEMEINE Language: German Article Type:BFN [Report signed "Sto": "Continue To Help Russian Germans"] [Text] Bonn, 10 Jan -- Mr. Waffenschmidt (Christian Democratic Union), the Federal Government's commissioner for resettlers, has said that the work for the Russian Germans is a great political and human task, which must also be continued in the future. At the same time, however, the parliamentary state secretary said that Russian promises regarding the step-by-step reestablishment of the Russian Germans' Volga Republic have not yet been fulfilled. Nevertheless, both the Russian Germans under their new chairman, Jakob Maurer, as well as the Federal Government stick to this goal. On Monday, in Bonn, Waffenschmidt announced that there are still about 2 million Russian Germans in the CIS states, most of them in Russia. For legal, humanitarian, and political reasons, German activities for this ethnic groups continues to be necessary. The Federal Government's care goes equally to those who want to stay in Russia and those who move to the FRG. How many Russian Germans will stay in Russia and in the other CIS states in the end cannot be predicted reliably at the moment. This will depend essentially on further developments in Russia and, in particular, on how the Russian Germans who live there assess their prospects in life. Waffenschmidt expressed the assumption that "a considerable German ethnic group will probably always live in Russia." This ethnic group will be of great importance for the German-Russian relationship. The work for the Russian Germans in Russia is "accompanied by some difficulties." These difficulties are caused by the quarrels between the Russian Germans and several interest groups, the upheavals in Russia, with a difficult distribution of powers, delays in the transfer of money in Germany because of irritations about Russian authorities, and also the disappointment of the Russian Germans about the current help that their ethnic groups receive in the Russian Federation. This was also the reason for the resignation of Heinrich Groth, the most prominent spokesman of the Russian Germans, in December 1993. Waffenschmidt expressly stated that the direct personal support by President Yeltsin for the formation of the "German National Rayons" in western Siberia is a success. Waffenschmidt was critical about the development of the Volga Republic. Here, the Russian promises have not been kept so far, because sympathetic feelings for Russian Germans in the area differ widely. However, the development in the focal area of "Sovkhoz 23," the settlement measure of Stepnoye, and the church center in Marx are exemplary.
