FBIS3-7233 "dreas059__a94015" FBIS-EAS-94-059-A Document Type:Daily Report 27 Mar 1994 ANNEX Japan Kim Yong-sam's Tokyo Visit Assessed OW2803104794 Tokyo MAINICHI SHIMBUN in Japanese 27 Mar 94 Morning Edition p 3--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY OW2803104794 Tokyo MAINICHI SHIMBUN Language: Japanese Article Type:BFN [By Hiroshi Yamazaki of the Political News Department] [Text] At his speech to the Japanese Diet, ROK President Kim Yong-sam solemnly suggested "putting an end to the history of strife between Japan and South Korea." He took an epoch-making step toward establishing "future-oriented" relations between the two countries during his visit to Japan. However, tension is extremely high on the Korean peninsula over the DPRK's (North Korea's) suspected development of nuclear arms. How to deal with this nuclear issue has become the focal issue for Japan and the ROK at the moment. The most amount of time was devoted to this issue during President Kim's summit meeting with Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa. Kim was determined to pursue "future-oriented" bilateral relations even in the face of the serious problem of nuclear arms. In light of such a stance, Japan has to exert serious efforts toward a new relationship between the two countries. A top Foreign Ministry official commented that the Diet speech "clearly attached importance to future-oriented bilateral relations, rather than to the nuclear issue." In his Diet speech, Kim said firmly, "We have to eliminate completely all ill-feelings in the past. The South Korean people do not hesitate to set their eyes on the bright future." According to a Foreign Ministry source, Japanese officials were very touched by President Kim's remark. They believe "this is a very welcome statement for Japan." However, it is also true that "this is the ROK president and government's position. We still have to see what the South Koreans think," (according to a top Foreign Ministry official). The Japanese assessment of this visit is: "Through this round of talks, we feel that we have climbed one, two, or even three mountains in the Japan-ROK relations," (according to a Foreign Ministry source). Therefore, Japan, in turn, has to take immediate concrete measures to deal with the nuclear issue and bilateral problems.
