FBIS3-1159 "drafr055_d_94012" FBIS-AFR-94-055 Document Type:Daily Report 21 Mar 1994 SOUTHERN AFRICA Mozambique Chissano Opens Frelimo Central Committee Meeting MB2103131294 Maputo Radio Mozambique Network in Portuguese 1030 GMT 21 Mar 94 MB2103131294 Maputo Radio Mozambique Network Language: Portuguese Article Type:BFN [Report by Filipe Mabutana] [Text] Under the chairmanship of President Joaquim Alberto Chissano, the Mozambique Liberation Front [Frelimo] Central Committee has been holding its fourth ordinary session at the Frelimo School in Matola since this morning. A total of 144 party members are attending the session, which should perhaps be called Frelimo's triumphal meeting. According to Frelimo Chairman Joaquim Chissano, only Frelimo knows how to implement democracy in this country. In practice, democracy will perish and be a tuneless song in the throats of dictators or disguised puppets. [sentence as heard] In his speech to the fourth Frelimo Central Committee session, the Mozambican president gave special attention to the Mozambican peace process in general, and in particular the troop confinement and demobilization processes, as well as the formation of the new Mozambique Defense Armed Forces, FADM. He also noted the need for Frelimo militants to mobilize the electorate and to gather new members for the party. In fact, Frelimo is very happy about its membership. In his speech a few minutes ago, Frelimo Chairman Chissano said his party had already been able to get 359,719 new members in the 21-month period between March 1992 and December of last year. According to him, these figures reflect his party's growing credibility among the Mozambican people. Joaquim Chissano noted that such findings by Frelimo may serve as a catalyst to increase its belief that it can win the upcoming first multiparty elections in the country. [Begin Chissano recording] Our party has enjoyed the people's respect for many years. These perceptions arise from the people's knowledge about the aims that have always guided Frelimo and the successes we have scored even when we were going through rather difficult times. [Words indistinct] the difficulties we have faced. This should not wipe away our history or the foundations we have established and on which (?we hope to build) a happy Mozambique. We must have the courage and firmness to face up to the challenges posed by this process. We want to win the elections in a climate of reconciliation and tolerance. This does not mean, though, that we have to keep quiet about all direct and indirect aggression we have been dealt. [end recording]
