FBIS3-11351 "drlat054_c_94007" FBIS-LAT-94-054 Document Type:Daily Report 19 Mar 1994 MEXICO Salinas Marks Oil Nationalization Anniversary PA2003135294 Mexico City Radio ACIR Network in Spanish 0000 GMT 19 Mar 94 PA2003135294 Mexico City Radio ACIR Network Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Report by Elizabeth Diaz from the "ACIR Radio News" newscast] [Text] President Carlos Salinas de Gortari affirmed that his administration has fulfilled its commitment to keep the oil industry under Mexican control and ownership. He added that Pemex [Mexican Petroleum] had been restructured and strengthened because, otherwise, it would have deteriorated into an unproductive and weak corporation thereby becoming easy prey for local and foreign, private interests. At midday today at the main Pemex administration offices, President Salinas led the ceremonies marking the 56th oil nationalization anniversary. This was the sixth and last [Pemex] public ceremony the president will attend before his term in office expires. [Begin Salinas recording] The government's responsibility toward this enterprise can only be fulfilled if we establish conditions that guarantee Pemex's future permanence as a nationalized enterprise. We have worked expressly to fulfill that duty and the facts prove this. I hereby state that Pemex is stronger because it is more productive and efficient. On the domestic front, Pemex can guarantee the country's energy needs; it strengthens the public economy for social spending; it increases its own reserves and investments; and restructures its activities. Pemex's fortitude is enhanced abroad because we did not allow any international relationship whatsoever that could subjugate Pemex decisions to any other will than that of the Mexican people. [end recording] Cabinet members and representatives of government branches, workers unions, and business organizations attended the ceremony. The president recognized Pemex General Director Francisco Rojas' honesty and dedication. He stressed that he will keep his commitment to keep Mexican oil in the Mexican people's hands for our exclusive benefit until the very last day of his administration.
