FBIS3-7310 "dreas059_a_94039" FBIS-EAS-94-059 Document Type:Daily Report 27 Mar 1994 NORTHEAST ASIA Japan Prosecution Officials Hold Meeting on Scandals OW2703110794 Tokyo KYODO in English 1024 GMT 27 Mar 94 OW2703110794 Tokyo KYODO Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Tokyo, March 27 KYODO -- Prosecutors plan to wind up their investigation of a series of bribery scandals involving major contractors with an indictment of former Construction Minister Kishiro Nakmura, prosecution sources said Sunday [27 March]. Top prosecution officials will hold a meeting Monday to approve the plan, the sources said. The Tokyo District Prosecutors Office will then indict Nakamura on Tuesday on charges he received a 10 million yen bribe from giant contractor Kajima Corp. in January 1992, the sources said. The former construction minister has reportedly remained silent during questioning by prosecutors since he was arrested March 11. The money Nakamura allegedly accepted was apparently intended as a reward for using his influence as a Diet member to help stop the Fair Trade Commission (FTC) from filing an accusation against a cartel of 66 contractors, including Kajima, over bid-rigging in Saitama Prefecture. At the time, Nakamura was the deputy chief of the special committee on Antimonopoly Laws of then governing Liberal Democratic Party (LDP). He left the party after his arrest. Since last June, two prefectural governors, two mayors and more than 20 executives of eight leading contractors and a paper manufacturer have been indicted in connection with the influence-peddling scandals on public works projects. The contractor scandals came to the surface after the arrest of retired LDP powerbroker Shin Kanemaru in March 1993. Kanemaru is standing trial on charges of evading roughly 1 billion yen in tax on some 1.8 billion yen in undeclared income, chiefly provided by contractors. Prosecutors have apparently given up filing a criminal charge against scandals involving Seiroku Kajiyama, a powerful LDP Diet member, and former Posts Minister Hideo Watanabe for want of evidence. A suspicion had emerged that Mitsui Construction Co. gave 10 million yen to the Kajiyama camp in 1991 to gain his influence in winning a public works project contract. However, a Mitsui executive, who should have delivered the money, has testified he pocketed it himself, the sources said. Kajiyama, former justice minister and former LDP secretary general, denied the allegation and sued the ASAHI SHIMBUN, which reported he received the money. Prosecutors have confirmed Watanabe received 40 million yen from Kajima from 1988 to 1991 in connection with a hotel development project in central Tokyo, the sources said. But they failed to discover any specific request Kajima made to Watanabe, they said.
