FBIS3-11060 "drlat052_c_94003" FBIS-LAT-94-052 Document Type:Daily Report 16 Mar 1994 MEXICO Guatemala's De Leon Pays Official Visit Admits Rebel Action in Chiapas PA1603180194 Mexico City XEW Television Network in Spanish 0430 GMT 16 Mar 94 PA1603180194 Mexico City XEW Television Network Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Report on Guatemalan President Ramiro de Leon Carpio's official visit to Mexico City on 15 March; from the "24 Hours" newscast; passages within quotation marks are recorded] [Excerpt] [passage omitted] In the afternoon, President Ramiro de Leon Carpio met with Mexican Government Secretary Jorge Carpizo and Commerce Secretary Jaime Serra Puche. Later at a local hotel, he met with reporters and admitted that Guatemalan rebels could have provided guidance and weapons during the Chiapas conflict. [De Leon] "Just today, we spoke with President Carlos Salinas de Gortari about the possible involvement of Guatemalans or other foreign nationals in the January events. As the defense minister has already said, we cannot deny that possibility." During a dinner hosted by the Mexican leader and his wife to honor Guatemalan President Ramiro de Leon Carpio and his coterie, President Salinas said economic development is a guarantee for peace. [Salinas] "This is why it is important to maintain peace as an asset of unbreakable unity and a requirement for civilian coexistence. For Mexico and all Latin American countries, peace with justice is our most valuable heritage." President De Leon Carpio was optimistic about signing a peace agreement thereby concluding three decades of war between the Guatemalan guerrillas and the Army. [De Leon] "The conflict is such that it has hampered any possibility of growth and impaired all efforts of moving more swiftly toward sustained and sustainable development." Mexican cabinet members and the Guatemalan delegation also attended the dinner offered by Mr. and Mrs. Salinas de Gortari in honor of the Guatemalan president and his wife, Maria Eugenia Morales de Leon Carpio.
