FBIS4-7291 "dreas083__a94016" FBIS-EAS-94-083-A Daily Report 28 Apr 1994 ANNEX South Korea Newspaper Interviews Kim Yong-sam Newspaper Interviews Kim Yong-sam Summary of Responses Published OW2904023894 Tokyo ASAHI SHIMBUN in Japanese 28 Apr 94 Morning Edition p 8--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY OW2904023894 Tokyo ASAHI SHIMBUN Japanese BFN [Text] Seoul, 27 Apr -- ROK President Kim Yong-sam's letter in response to ASAHI SHIMBUN's questions is summarized below: The North Korean Nuclear Issue and China's Role The reality with respect to North Korea's [DPRK] nuclear program is that the North is thought to have secured enough plutonium to produce at least one to three (nuclear arms). China has had friendly relations with North Korea for a long time, supplying crude oil and foodstuffs to that country. China can exercise more influence on North Korea than any other country. In light of the fact that almost all of what China wanted in the process of the UN Security Council adopting a UN secretary general announcement was accepted, it is hoped China will continue to fulfill its responsible role in solving the nuclear question hereafter. U.S.-DPRK Talks and South-North Dialogue Removal of suspicion about the DPRK's nuclear program is the first stop for restoration of trust between South and North Korea. Only when this question is resolved will South and North Korea be able to march toward substantive improvement of relations step by step. The issue of the ROK-U.S. joint military exercise "Team Spirit" will be resolved automatically if South and North Korea enter the stage of conducting mutual nuclear inspections. We are making efforts to create a favorable atmosphere for U.S.-DRPK working-level talks in the hope of bringing about an early solution to the nuclear question. We hope the working-level talks to be held soon will bear substantive results. I hope I will be able to build a firm basis for South-North reunification during my term of office. The North Korean Military Threat It is true that North Korea has stepped up antiaircraft drills in and around the Yongbyong district (where the nuclear-related facilities are located) and has reinforced its military capabilities in part since its nuclear arms development question became a subject of criticism by the international community. But we have not been able to observe specific signs that North Korea will make military provocations; the "crisis on the Korean peninsula" (reported) in overseas mass media recently can be said to have been exaggerated in some parts. North Korea has a heavily armed, 1 million-strong regular force, and long-range missiles it developed on its own. It has 65 percent of its military power deployed along the demilitarized zone. IAEA Inspections North Korea must not only accept additional inspections on the radiation chemical laboratory being discussed with the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) as well as inspections accompanying the changes of fuel rods, but must also accept special inspections by the IAEA on unreported facilities. These special inspections and South-North mutual nuclear inspections are two different things. Security Cooperation in East Asia and the Question of Japan Becoming a UN Security Council Permanent Member Since the end of the Cold War, security conditions in the Northeast Asia region have in general turned for the better, but instability remains because of such problem as the nuclear suspicion in North Korea. The continued U.S. role is extremely important to build a stable order in this area. Furthermore, in view of the unclear security conditions of the Northeast Asian region, a dialogue on security is necessary. Dialogue among countries in this region should be conducted in ways to augment such bilateral security systems as those existing between South Korea and the United States, and between the United States and Japan. South Korea is willing to actively participate in security dialogue in the region and believes it should have close cooperation with Japan while doing so. We think discussions on reorganizing the UN Security Council are appropriate timewise. We hope Japan will play constructive roles--appropriate for its national power--in international arenas like the United Nations. Under its reform and open-door policy, China will continue to grow economically; and will attempt to achieve improved unity nationally and to play increased roles internationally. We hope that in doing so, China will make contributions to bringing about stability in Northeast Asia.
