FBIS4-45223 "jptdd023__l94067" JPRS-TDD-94-023-L JPRS Narcotics 25 May 1994 NEAR EAST & SOUTH ASIA REGIONAL AFFAIRS Pakistan, Iran Reach Agreement on Information Sharing Pakistan, Iran Reach Agreement on Information Sharing BK2505131694 Islamabad THE MUSLIM in English 25 May 94 p 1 BK2505131694 Islamabad THE MUSLIM English BFN [Report by Zahid Hussain] [Text] Islamabad, May 24: Pakistan and Iran have agreed to exchange lists of criminals involved in drug trafficking and smuggling. This was decided at the eighth meeting of the Joint Border Commission of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan and Islamic Republic of Iran held from May 14 to 18 in Zahalan, Iran, source in the Federal government told here Tuesday. Both sides agreed to enhance cooperation in the battle against narcotics and smuggling. The officials who arrived back home from the meeting said that Iran and Pakistan have decided to exchange drug traffickers and smugglers besides exchanging information in this regard. The Deputy Commissioners of the Pakistani side in Balochistan will come in contact with the border security officers of Iran and vice versa through quickest possible means--wireless, telex etc--for the exchange of information regarding criminals and their activities in their respective districts. It has also been decided to hand over the wanted criminals if found in the areas of each other across the border. Extradition treaty between Iran and Pakistan exists already. The Iranian side, the officials said, has assured to provide facilities like electricity, water, etc to the Pakistani posts of Frontier Constabulary (PC) which lie near Iranian border and far off from Pakistan side. To combat the theft and subsequent smuggling of official vehicles from Iran to Pakistan, the Government of Pakistan has agreed to release the vehicles and return it to the Iranian government if it received information prior to the registration of a case in this regard. Both sides agreed to hold periodic and more frequent meetings between the Deputy commissioners/Political Agents from Pakistan and border security officers from Iranian side to sort out the problems-locality. As a result of the meeting the Iranian government released 30 fishing boats belonging to Pakistan fishermen, out of a total of 100 such boats caught during fishing inside Iranians waters. For the rest 70 boats the Iranian side said as their cases were lying pending in the courts the officials will pursue the cases and secure their release.
