FBIS3-11033 "drlat051_r_94001" FBIS-LAT-94-051 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Mar 1994 Peru Labor Minister Criticizes Unions' Request for U.S. Trade Sanctions PY1603024194 Lima EL PERUANO in Spanish 7 Mar 94 p A3 PY1603024194 Lima EL PERUANO Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Excerpts] Peruvian union leaders have systematically raised charges before international labor organizations since 1990 for the only purpose of curtailing international economic cooperation with Peru, Labor Minister Augusto Antonioli told EL PERUANO during an exclusive interview. He said he is a witness to this labor union policy and that he is not surprised at the lack of foundation for the charges made by the Peruvian labor confederations' coordinating board before several organizations like the International Labor Organization (ILO). Antonioli added that a hypothetical and improbable trade sanction against Peru will not affect at all the leaders of the CGTP [General Confederation of Peruvian Workers] or the CTP [Confederation of Peruvian Workers] who have made these charges because they are not wage earners like the rest of the country's workers. "The elimination of import tax exemptions by the United States would affect Peruvian workers but not their union leaders," he said. It must be pointed out that alleged violations of labor rights were not made only during the Clinton administration. Such charges also were made during the last part of the administration of former President Bush when Peruvian union leaders sought to make the United States adopt repressive measures against Peru, but they were never taken into consideration. The AFL-CIO used to represent to CGTP leaders a symbol of oligarchy, of "Yankee imperialism," but now the CGTP wants this organization to raise charges of alleged labor rights violations. "All this is incredible," Antonioli said. [passage omitted] Regarding this attitude, Minister Antonioli said: "The current CGTP leaders are not respecting the agreements made between the government and deceased CGTP leader Pedro Huillca Tecse. All the progress we made during the negotiations with him is lost. I do not understand the current union leaders' policy." As for the observations made by the ILO to the Peruvian Government in the labor field, Antonioli said our country already has given a sound explanation about Peruvian workers' real situation and the labor policy implemented by the administration of President Alberto Fujimori. "Our labor law has 86 articles and seven complementary, temporary, and final provisions. The ILO has observed 16 articles and some clauses, which means that the rest of the law is correct. The articles that were questioned are exactly those we explained with foundation, clearly establishing their scope," Minister Antonioli said.
