FBIS3-10376 "drlat044_i_94003" FBIS-LAT-94-044 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Mar 1994 Nicaragua El Salvador's Cristiani Visits, Meets Chamorro Cristiani Refuses FMLN Demands PA0603235194 Managua BARRICADA in Spanish 5 Mar 94 p 4 PA0603235194 Managua BARRICADA Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Report by Alfonso Malespin] [Text] Before leaving Nicaragua yesterday, Salvadoran President Alfredo Cristiani said that his government will not meet the opposition FMLN's [Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front] demands for troops to be confined to their barracks one day prior to and one day following the 20 March elections and that troops not participate in transporting the ballot boxes. The Salvadoran president met with COSEP [Higher Council of Private Enterprise] members in the morning and urged them to take a more active role in their country's political life. He also met with the Supreme Court justices, who requested that Cristiani support the proposed Central American Court of Justice. The FMLN has said that the active participation of troops poses a danger of "technical electoral fraud" because they are still feared by many Salvadorans. Cristiani, who received the Jose Dolores Estrada Order from President Violeta de Chamorro despite objections by the Nicaraguan Jesuit community, said that if he accepted such a demand to confine the troops to the barracks, he would be "acting against the Constitution because it would suppress a right guaranteed to citizens regardless of their profession." Intimidating "The extent of the Armed Forces' participation has not gone beyond that requested by the Supreme Electoral Tribunal [TSE]. In addition, the Onusal [UN Observers for El Salvador] electoral commission has overseen their participation. Cristiani's party, Arena [Nationalist Republican Alliance], is favored to win the elections in a second round, although abstention is expected to exceed 40 percent. "There is no doubt that Arena will win," the Salvadoran president said in Managua. The FMLN has accused soldiers of intimidating voters and has said that at least 500,000 voters will be unable to vote due to unresolved problems at the TSE. At the end of Cristiani's last official visit to Managua, which was tinged by a violent clash between the National Police and former Government Ministry soldiers, he said Nicaragua will achieve political and economic development when "a climate of security" prevails in the country.
