FBIS4-45170 "jptdd023__l94014" JPRS-TDD-94-023-L JPRS Narcotics 15 May 1994 LATIN AMERICA BOLIVIA FELCN Broadening Operations in Amazon Region FELCN Broadening Operations in Amazon Region PY2505214394 Cochabamba LOS TIEMPOS in Spanish 15 May 94 p 1 PY2505214394 Cochabamba LOS TIEMPOS Spanish BFN [Text] La Paz, 14 May (LOS TIEMPOS) -- Within the next 30 days the Special Antinarcotics Force (FELCN) will broaden its area of operations into the Bolivian Amazon region to prevent illegal drug trafficking by cutting off the traffickers "supply line." This information was confirmed today in La Paz by Social Defense Secretary Mario Soliz Valenzuela. Soliz reported the preparation of a "long-term project" for immediate implementation. He indicated that the new FELCN regional headquarters will probably be located in Cobija (Pando Department) and that the plan includes the participation of customs control mechanisms, police border posts, and the military units in the region. FELCN Deputy Commander General Rogelio Vargas Ortuno reported that as a result of increased trafficking activities in some sectors of Beni and Pando Departments, a detailed study has been made on the creation of a so-called "permanent operational command" in this tropical region. Gen. Vargas said the many FELCN intelligence reports on the dangerous growth of trafficking in the zone have received the appropriate attention of Bolivian officials. He added: "The creation of a regional FELCN headquarters is the result of that concern." Vargas said many factors prompted national officials to create a permanent control post on the Brazilian border. He cited actions by FELCN agents a few weeks ago after settlers of the region opposed the arrest of a dozen traffickers. He said the regional command to be established in Pando will be permanent and similar to the ones in Santa Cruz, Trinidad, and Cochabamba. The FELCN reported that the busiest drug-routes in the Amazon region are the Guayaramerin-Riberalta-Serena (Rio Madre de Dios), and the Puerto Rico-Cobija (Pando) roads. The report indicates that the roads "frequently help" traffickers in the region to consolidate their illegal activity. The report says that these roads serve an area of about 600 square kilometers. Public transportation vehicles run on them and these are widely used by traffickers. The report adds that the drugs produced in the zone come mainly from San Joaquin and San Ramon (Beni Department).
