FBIS3-55530 "drsov006_b_94008" FBIS-SOV-94-006 Document Type:Daily Report 10 Jan 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political Issues Communist Faction Discusses Strategy for State Duma LD0901133094 Moscow Russian Television Network in Russian 1100 GMT 9 Jan 94 LD0901133094 Moscow Russian Television Network Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [By correspondent Lillevyali from Moscow; from the "Vesti" newscast] [Text] The communist faction, one of the largest factions of the new parliament, held a working meeting seminar in the Moscow parliamentary center today in the run up to the start of the work of the parliament. [Correspondent] On the agenda of the meeting which was held behind closed doors were issues connected with the running of the State Duma. During the very first days of the work of the parliament's lower chamber the communist deputies intend to give a political assessment of the October 1993 events in Moscow and of the referendum on the new constitution. Replying to a question about the election of the State Duma chairman, Deputy Viktor Zorkaltsev said that the four largest factions: Liberal Democratic Party of Russia, Russia's Choice, Communists, and the Agrarians have decided not to put their candidates forward for the position of speaker. He underscored that if a faction is powerful enough it can exert its influence in other ways. That is why representatives of the four largest factions have decided to allow a candidate from the smallest factions run for the post of chairman of the chamber. [Zorkaltsev] The largest factions will put forward their candidates for the positions of deputy chairmen. In all there will be candidates for chairman and four deputy chairmen and they should be put to the vote as a package. Resolving that issue in this way provides an opportunity to elect the leadership of the Duma in a matter of a few hours, to elect and approve the composition of the Duma committees, and elect the leadership of those committees without having to drag out the resolution of the organizational matters for two to three months as used to be the case in the past. [Lillevyali] According to Zorkaltsev, the main bone of contention to emerge in the Duma will concern the accomodation of the Duma and not the election of the speaker.
