FBIS3-45414 "drchi012_f_94003" FBIS-CHI-94-012 Document Type:Daily Report 19 Jan 1994 Near East & South Asia Reportage on Wen Jiabao Visit to Bangladesh Discusses Ties With Prime Minister OW1501183494 Beijing XINHUA in English 1654 GMT 15 Jan 94 OW1501183494 Beijing XINHUA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Dhaka, Janaury 15 (XINHUA) -- China is the most reliable friend of Bangladesh and the friendly ties between the two countries and the two ruling parties should be further strengthened under the new international circumstances. Bangladesh Prime Minister and Chairperson of the ruling Bangladesh Nationalist Party (BNP) Begum Khaleda Zia made the remarks this afternoon when meeting a visiting delegation of the Communist Party of China (CPC) headed by Wen Jiabao, alternative member of the Polit-bureau of the CPC Central Committee. The Bangladesh prime minister highly appreciated the achievements China has made in its reform and opening drive, saying that as a close friend of China, the Bangladesh Government and people feel happy about the enormous achievements China has made in all fields. The prime minister briefed the Chinese visitors on the efforts and achievements the Bangladesh Government and BNP have made in developing economy, education and enhancing women's social status. During the talks, Wen Jiabao, who is also member of the CPC Central Committee Secretariat, noted that the two countries have developed a traditional friendship and in the recent few years the relationship between the two countries and the two ruling parties have been consistently developed. Along with the increase of exchanges between the two countries and the two parties, the friendly Sino-Bangladesh cooperation will be further consolidated and strengthened, he said. The CPC delegation arrived here on January 13 at the invitation of BNP. On Friday [14 January], the delegation met with Bangladesh President Abdur Rahman Biswar and held a formal talk with BNP General Secretary Abdus Salam Talukder. Bangladesh is the last leg of the delegation's three-country tour following Singapore and India. It is due to leave for home on Sunday.
