FBIS3-38864 "drweu027_a_94004" FBIS-WEU-94-027 Document Type:Daily Report 9 Feb 1994 AUSTRIA Polls Survey Referendum Vote on EU Membership Mood `Favorable' Now AU0502171594 Vienna DER STANDARD in German 5-6 Feb 94 p 2 AU0502171594 Vienna DER STANDARD Language: German Article Type:BFN [Conrad Seidl report: "Turn of the Mood in Favor of EU"] [Text] Linz -- The mood in favor of Austria's joining the European Union (EU) has never been as favorable as it is now. This succinct conclusion is drawn by Werner Beutelmeyer, head of the Market Institute in Linz, from the poll concluded at the end of January for DER STANDARD's monthly European Barometer. For this conclusion Market relies on several indicators: - First, Austrians are regularly asked how they would decide if a referendum were held right now. Last summer, after a long period to the contrary, there was a majority in favor of EU membership. This majority was, however, lost again by autumn. - More decisive is the assessment of the general mood by those polled. Market asks: "What do you think: How do most Austrians currently view joining the EU?" Last June, when 40 percent of those polled were in favor of membership and 37 percent against, those same pollees believed that a majority would be against EU membership. At that time 34 percent said that a majority would be against membership, 31 percent assumed that there would be a majority in favor of membership. In the meantime, this relationship has clearly changed: Now 33 percent think that the majority is in favor of membership; only 24 percent think that there is a majority against the EU. - Another indicator is the assessment on whether joining the European Community or the EU would bring personal advantages or disadvantages for those polled. For months, right until last autumn, there had been a majority that expected primarily disadvantages for themselves. Since then, however, there has been a clear and steady change, particularly in this respect. Market chief Beutelmayer thinks that the reason for the change in mood is the current reporting on Austria's negotiations in Brussels. In this connection, it is important to see that Austrian positions are defended seriously. However, the referendum has been far from "won." One out of four Austrians is undecided.
