FBIS3-19323 "drweu051_a_94004" FBIS-WEU-94-051 Document Type:Daily Report 15 Mar 1994 AUSTRIA OeMV Plans Projects With Iran, Turkey, Libya AU1503122394 Vienna DER STANDARD in German 15 Mar 94 p 17 AU1503122394 Vienna DER STANDARD Language: German Article Type:BFN [Report by Hans V. Haumer: "OeMV: Great Prospects, High Risks"] [Text] Vienna -- Within the framework of international consortia, the OeMV [Austrian Petroleum Corporation] currently is examining two projects that might yield much but which are, at the same time, fraught with high political risks. The construction of a gas pipeline to Europe is being discussed with Iran and Turkey. In Libya, on the other hand, the issue is participation in the gigantic Murzuk oil field, which contains more than 110 million tonnes, according to the OeMV. The technical journal ARAB OIL & GAS reports on estimates of up to 280 million tonnes. The Iranian gas pipeline project is supported by the rising demand for natural gas in Europe. In the year 2000 West Europe will face a deficit of 33 billion cubic meters, according to today's (changeable) state of affairs. The proposal that is being discussed involves an annual supply capacity of 5 billion cubic meters. In addition to the National Iranian Gas Corporation, the consortium also includes Gaz de France, Ruhrgas, the Spanish Enagas, the Czech and Slovak corporations, as well as the OeMV. Iran currently produces about 110 million cubic meters per day. Its own consumption in the 1993-94 business year will probably be 38.9 billion cubic meters. The economic and political framework presents a problem. Tensions between Iran and Turkey have risen strongly over the past months -- to such an extent that troops have been transferred to the joint border. The problems arise, on the one hand, because of the Central Asian area (Azerbaijan, Tajikistan), where both countries want to expand their influence. On the other hand, the conflicts of the Turkish state with its Kurdish minority are far from being settled. Libyan Hopes In the Libyan Sahara the OeMV might expand its own oil production considerably. As of 1997-98 7.5 to 8 million tonnes of oil per year could be produced from the Murzuk field. The Libyan National Oil Corporation [LNOC] is looking for international partners and is holding discussions with a consortium. This consortium consists of the French company Total, which is the leader of the consortium, holding 40 percent. The OeMV and the Spanish Repsol Exploracion hold 30 percent each. Experts of this industrial branch estimate the consortium's capital need for the entire project at 6 billion schillings. However, what benefits the investors at first glance also makes their involvement more difficult. Libya cannot make any great demands. The UN embargo is becoming tighter and tighter. Airlines may no longer fly to the country. Some months ago a ban on capital transfers to Libya by all companies with a Libyan majority was added. Equipment for oil terminals and refineries is also subject to the embargo. As a final escalation of trade barriers, the United States is threatening an oil embargo. This would mean that foreign (European) oil corporations could no longer sell the oil they are producing in Libya. In contrast to the European corporations, U.S. corporations have not been active in Libya since they were thrown out in the 1980's and because of the permanent conflicts between the United States and Libya.
