FBIS4-33006 "drlat105_l_94005" FBIS-LAT-94-105 Daily Report 22 May 1994 Bolivia French Official Signs Aid Agreements, Ends Visit French Official Signs Aid Agreements, Ends Visit PY3005224494 La Paz PRESENCIA in Spanish 22 May 94 p 7 PY3005224494 La Paz PRESENCIA Spanish BFN [Text] Upon ending his official visit to the country, Bertrand Dufourcq, French vice foreign minister [title as published], said last night that relations and the financial, scientific, and cultural cooperation with Bolivia are positive and on the right path. Within that framework, Dufourcq said that agreements and protocols for financial aid in various fields were also signed. Dufourcq said that his country "would be very pleased to support the Bolivian request to negotiate its foreign debt before the Paris Club," as France presides over this financial organization. He also noted that annual French aid to Bolivia amounts to approximately $30 million, in addition to indirect help in the form of the $8 million France contributes to the European Union for aid. Dufourcq indicated that Bolivian officials asked for greater French aid in some sectors, and specifically in the civil service program for training state employees. Regarding the financial protocols, the agreement that was signed involves 45 million French francs for the Cochabamba water system. France will also support the construction of a cable railway from La Paz to El Alto, and will donate 5 million francs for an aeronautics plan. In addition $50,000 will be appropriated for the purchase of medicine to fight leishmaniasis. Dufourcq also said: "France is willing to negotiate new agreements with Bolivia." Dufourcq also signed two agreements with the Bolivian Government. One is a cooperation agreement with the National Police, which will receive technical equipment and a computer system. The other agreement refers to the cultural and scientific area, by which French experts and scientists will provide their know-how for the development of Bolivia.
