FBIS4-33869 "drlat113_a_94001" FBIS-LAT-94-113 Daily Report 7 Jun 1994 CARIBBEAN Cuba International Opposition to U.S. Embargo Viewed International Opposition to U.S. Embargo Viewed PA1106004994 Havana Radio Havana Cuba in Spanish 0000 GMT 7 Jun 94 PA1106004994 Havana Radio Havana Cuba Spanish BFN [Commentary by Roberto Morejon from the "Evening Information Review" newscast] [Text] The U.S. policy aimed at tightening the blockade against Cuba has recently proved that it completely lacks support. A large segment of the international community does not care that in his so-called message to the Cubans, U.S. President Bill Clinton vowed he would continue the economic boycott of Cuba. President Clinton and U.S. Congressman Robert Torricelli, who is known worldwide as the author of the law that bears his name and reinforces the blockade, are now more isolated than ever before. Torricelli, wrapped in the anti-Cuban aura he loves to cultivate, failed in his attempt to interfere in the internal affairs of Mexico, a country he visited recently. During his stay in Mexico, the U.S. congressman certainly hoped to foster one of his aggressive moves against Cuba. But the attempt proved futile, and this author of a bill demanding political reforms in Mexico faced the rejection of deputies, high-ranking officials, and the media. Mexican citizens belonging to the Go for Cuba solidarity group protested Torricelli's visit in front of the U.S. Embassy in Mexico City, where they burned a coffin and an effigy of the congressman and his anti-Cuban law. In Mexico City, delegates attending the 20th Conference of the Latin American Economic System [SELA] passed a resolution condemning the U.S. economic, trade, and financial blockade of Cuba, which has been in force for more than 30 years. The SELA document urged the lifting of all restrictions against Cuba -- the effects of which it described as detrimental to the population -- and it demanded the suspension of unilateral actions that are not in keeping with the current international economic and political environment. While SELA was issuing this declaration, the Nonaligned Movement's 11th Foreign Ministers Conference demanded an end to the U.S. blockade of Cuba and asked Washington to stop committing acts contrary to the spirit of being a good neighbor. In addition, SELA asked for the return of Guantanamo Naval Base. These governmental and popular rejections of U.S. harassment of Cuba echo two resolutions that were approved two years in a row by the UN General Assembly in 1992 and 1993. As of today, however, the U.S. Government has failed to heed the letter and spirit of these resolutions. The fact that the White House appears to be ignoring international pronouncements against the blockade does not detract from the importance or the value of these declarations. On the contrary, these actions are simply proof of the stubbornness of a nation that is ignoring a growing international trend.
