FBIS4-48593 "drafr099_d_94008" FBIS-AFR-94-099 Daily Report 23 May 1994 SOUTHERN AFRICA Angola UNITA Reacts To Aid Suspension UNITA Reacts To Aid Suspension MB2305085394 Jamba Voz da Resistencia do Galo Negro in Portuguese 0600 GMT 23 May 94 MB2305085394 Jamba Voz da Resistencia do Galo Negro Portuguese BFN [Excerpts] In addition to its cruel, successive bombardments of densely populated areas, the Jose Eduardo dos Santos regime is once again using international relief aid as a weapon against the people, particularly those living in areas controlled by the National Union for the Total Independence of Angola [UNITA]. Sources with the UNITA relief services today reacted to statements made to the Portuguese television [as heard] TSF [wireless] channel by the MPLA-PT [Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola-Labor Party] minister for social reintegration. According to the minister, UNITA troops raided World Food Program [WFP] warehouses in the cities of Huambo, Uige, and Jamba. Minister Albino Malungo's remarks were unfortunate and have been dismissed by [name indistinct], WFP spokesman in Luanda. Unlike in the regime's areas, there is neither wholesale theft nor social evils in UNITA-administered territory. [passage omitted] Other sources told our correspondent that Albino Malungo's unfounded remarks are hypocritical because he should remember that Norberto dos Santos, his predecessor in the same ministry, was dismissed for diverting relief aid donated by international relief agencies. The source added that such a situation is not applicable to UNITA-controlled areas. The sources urged the international community and relief agencies operating in Angola not to allow themselves to be deceived by Jose Eduardo dos Santos' regime. The regime intends to use the shortages faced by Angolans to effectively implement its militarist plan. The sources added that the United Nations should as a matter of urgency review its operations in Angola so that these cover the whole country, without discrimination.
