FBIS4-25656 "drchi113_v_94001" FBIS-CHI-94-113 Daily Report 11 Jun 1994 TAIWAN Qiandao Lake Murders Trial Ends 11 Jun Qiandao Lake Murders Trial Ends 11 Jun OW1106074394 Taipei CNA in English 0715 GMT 11 Jun 94 OW1106074394 Taipei CNA English BFN [By Yang Hui-chen and Benjamin Yeh] [Text] Hangzhou, June 11 (CNA) -- The trial of the three men charged with robbing and murdering 32 people, including 24 Taiwan tourists, aboard a boat on Qiandao Lake March 31 ended here Saturday [11 June], with the verdict to be delivered on Sunday. The judge heard the last statements by the prosecutor, the defendants and their lawyers before he closed the hearing, which began Friday and lasted for two hours Saturday morning. The three defendants -- Wu Lihong, Hu Zhihan, and Yu Aijun -- all pleaded guilty Friday. No relatives of the Taiwan victims appeared at the court to protest Beijing's decision to limit access to the trial. Beijing agreed to allow victims' relatives to attend the trial, but barred Taiwan reporters, lawmakers and Straits Exchange Foundation (SEF) officials. Taiwan reporters were permitted to watch the trial via closed-circuit television. SEF is a semi-official organization authorized by Taiwan to handle private exchanges between the two sides in the absence of official contacts across the strait. In Taipei, eight relatives of the victims held a news conference Friday, saying the trial was another attempt by Beijing to cover up the crime. "Whatever the result of the trial, we will never accept it," a relative told reporters. The Qiandao Lake incident occurred on March 31 when 32 people were murdered and robbed aboard a pleasure boat ferrying them across the Zhejiang Province lake. Beijing did not publicize the incident until two days later and did not admit the deaths involved foul play until Taiwan threatened to review fragile cross-Taiwan Strait ties. Beijing then arrested the three suspects and a fourth implicated in the incident and made public the alleged investigative report which many here said has raised more questions than it answers. Different accounts of the incident have since emerged, with the latest one coming from legislator Parris Chang, a member of Taiwan's largest opposition group, the Democratic Progressive Party. Chang told a recent seminar that the murder was carried out by a squad of some 10 People's Liberation Army soldiers who were executed shortly after the incident.
