FBIS3-4032 "drchi058_w_94003" FBIS-CHI-94-058 Document Type:Daily Report 24 Mar 1994 HONG KONG & MACAO Hong Kong Officials, Legislators View Jardine Matheson Delisting HK2403073294 Hong Kong HONGKONG STANDARD in English 24 Mar 94 p 1 HK2403073294 Hong Kong HONGKONG STANDARD Language: English Article Type:BFN [By Gavin Patterson, Deputy Business Editor, and Ming Man] [Text] Jardine Matheson yesterday carried out its threat to delist its shares from Hong Kong, drawing immediate criticism from China and heralding the beginning of the end of British rule in the territory. Its shares will cease trading on 31 December when all transactions will move to London, the home of the company's primary listing. Reaction was quick and ranged from anger to regret. A Chinese official in Hong Kong immediately attacked the British trading giant for being irresponsible, even though Beijing has long targeted the hong [large trading company] over its origins as an opium dealer on the mainland. Zheng Guoxiong, deputy director of the XINHUA News Agency, said: "The Chinese side doesn't want to see any company ignore Hong Kong's economic development and Hong Kong people's interest by doing something extremely irresponsible." But Jardine director Sir Charles Powell denied the group was moving out of the territory or that it lacked confidence in the future. "In no way does this decision mark a withdrawal from Hong Kong," he said. "We have full confidence in the future and I would expect our business to increase." Financial Secretary Sir Hamish Macleod also dismissed claims that the delist ing would affect confidence inthe local business community. "I think it's a great pity to see the delisting of Jardine. We have had an extended dialogue on the subject. We must not exaggerate the effect," Sir Hamish told reporters yesterday afternoon. "It is merely a delisting but, nevertheless, I think it is a pity and it takes a modest amount of capitalisation out of the Hong Kong stock market. "Of course it has been more than compensated by the increase in capitalisation over the past year or so, but it is a pity and I regret it." Sir Hamish said Jardine had made it clear the company would continue to operate and be a major employer and trader in the territory. However, Liberal Party legislator Allen Lee attacked the decision saying it was irresponsible as the company had made so much money out of the territory. "I think it's very unfortunate. Jardine has a long history and connection with Hong Kong," Mr Lee said. United Democrats legislator Dr Huang Chen-ya also took the China line, saying: "It's not very responsible." He said the Securities & Futures Commission (SFC) should protect the interests of small shareholders. Dr Huang feared that small investors might panic and sell their shares off cheaply. "They might be afraid that they may not be able to trade in these shares properly in the future," he said. Sir Charles said the group had taken great pains in explaining its decision to the Chinese and added that the move was purely due to regulatory reasons. "To delist is not a drama, far from it. It will have no effect on our business, it concerns only the details of how we are regulated," he said. The company has fought a long but unsuccessful battle with the SFC to avoid being regulated by Hong Kong's code on takeovers and mergers after the territory returns to China in 1997. The SFC said it regretted the decision to delist but added it would not be justified in granting special treatment to Jardine, or any company, by exempting them from the local code.
