FBIS4-14282 "drnes083_a_94003" FBIS-NES-94-083 Daily Report 27 Apr 1994 ARAB AFRICA Algeria Washington Talks on Economic Reform Continue Washington Talks on Economic Reform Continue LD2704160994 Algiers Radio Algiers Network in Arabic 1200 GMT 27 Apr 94 LD2704160994 Algiers Radio Algiers Network Arabic BFN [Text] The reform plan based on the liberal system that the Algerian Government has approved after its agreement with the IMF has received extensive attention in different international financial circles. In light of this agreement, the Algerian Government economic delegation led by Mr. Mourad Benachnou, the minister of industrial restructuring and participation, is continuing its talks in Washington with officials in the IMF and the World Bank who are meeting within the framework of their annual joint session. The Algerian delegation's talks with the two international bodies are focusing on the technical aspects of the Algerian Government's reform plan. An Algerian source in the U.S. capital explained that the greater part of the discussions between the two sides is centered on the release [tasrih] of the second part related to banking systems in Algeria that comprises 14 plans on budget correction. It has become clear from these talks that the World Bank is prepared to grant Algeria a 200 million dollar loan to be invested in the field of water in Algeria. Official circles in both the IMF and the World Bank have told our delegation that they support the government reform plan. The same circles said they considered this plan to be an important step on the way to establishing Algeria's economy on sound foundations. The same source says that preparations are being made for a new plan related to the development of the housing sector, adding that Mr. Mourad Benachnou's talks with World Bank officials was fruitful. The talks also covered how to deal with the problems of unemployment by relying on experiments that were tried in other countries. This would encourage the private sector to play its role in step with the expansion and promotion of the activities of the productive sectors. The Algerian delegation's talks will continue tomorrow, Thursday, with a sector by sector review of the economic plan in order to obtain support for the reform plan from the World Bank.
