FBIS3-40461 "jpjst005__l94011" JPRS-JST-94-005L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Japan 31 February 1994 Aerospace SJAC Identifies Need for Supersonic Passenger Aircraft, Wants to Begin Basic Research 94P60094A Tokyo NIHON KEIZAI SHIMBUN in Japanese 1 Jan 94 p 7--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 94P60094A Tokyo NIHON KEIZAI SHIMBUN Language: Japanese Article Type:CSO [Text] The Society of Japanese Aerospace Companies, Inc. (SJAC, Chairman Isamu Kawai) has proposed to the Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI) that it start basic research on supersonic passenger aircraft in January 1994. Their ultimate goal is to develop the technology required to produce lighter airframes for non-stop flights between Tokyo and the east coast of the United States. According to the mid-term report submitted at the end of 1993 by the Next Generation Aircraft Investigation Committee of SJAC, the future demand for supersonic aircraft between the years 2005 and 2015 is estimated to reach a maximum of 1,000 aircraft worldwide. The project, which can realize the dream of connecting Tokyo and New York in about 4 hours, is about to draw considerable public attention. Noise is a major problem during supersonic flight. Shock waves, or sonic booms, could reach the ground in an intensity adequate to break windows. In order to minimize this problem, SJAC plans to establish a route between Tokyo and the U.S. east coast that detours out over the Atlantic Ocean rather than flying the shorter Great Circle route over Canada. Planes traveling this route will require a cruising range of more than 12,000 kilometers. U.S. Boeing, UK British Airways, and French Aerospeciale are all carrying out projects on supersonic aircraft with cruising ranges of about 10,000 kilometers, considerably shorter than that planned by SJAC. Lighter airframes are essential for longer cruising distances. SJAC plans to propose government/industry joint research on the development of heat-resistant composite materials. The Engineering Research Association for Super/Hyper-Sonic Transport Propulsion System, a consortium of Japan/U.S./UK/French manufacturers, has already produced a prototype engine for supersonic aircraft. Successful operational tests were made in November 1993. Success in airframe development, in addition to this successful engine test, is likely to propel supersonic aircraft development into a mega project for the 21st century.
