FBIS3-20397 "drweu061_l_94001" FBIS-WEU-94-061 Document Type:Daily Report 28 Mar 1994 SPAIN Gonzalez Urges PSOE Unity; Confident on Elections LD2803204994 Madrid TVE Internacional Television in Spanish 1900 GMT 28 Mar 94 LD2803204994 Madrid TVE Internacional Television Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Excerpts] Felipe Gonzalez today asked the PSOE [Spanish Socialist Workers Party] to make an effort toward unity and integration during the series of regional conferences that start in April and continue onwards. This is how the PSOE secretary general summarized part of the debate that took place at the first meeting of the executive committee of the Socialist Party elected at the recent Socialist federal congress. The decision of who is to be spokesperson was postponed until next Tuesday [5 April], although Felipe Gonzalez hinted that the new secretary of the organization, Cipria Ciscar, might take up the job. [passage omitted] Ciscar, Benegas, Marugan, Obiols, and Almunia belong to a commission that is to suggest names and ideas for the European elections -- elections after which Gonzalez is sure he will not dissolve parliament. Moreover, he is optimistic about the results. [Begin Gonzalez recording] There will not be any dissolution. There will not be a causal effect between one process and the other whatever the result may be. And may I add, I think the result is that we will win. [end recording] Gonzalez also says he is not too worried by the approval [ratings] of his leadership shown by some polls, nor is he worried by what the polls have to say about PSOE election results. He thinks this data is linked to the crisis and that the results will improve as soon as the citizens become aware of the economic upturn. [Begin Gonzalez recording] I think that the citizens are holding us responsible for the excess of internal divisions. So if we are able to demonstrate two things -- more internal unity and more success on the economic front, thanks to the considerable efforts being made -- I think that the tendency will change. [end recording]
