FBIS4-4399 "dreas062_a_94016" FBIS-EAS-94-062 Daily Report 31 Mar 1994 NORTHEAST ASIA Japan Candidates for BOJ Governor's Post Viewed Candidates for BOJ Governor's Post Viewed OW3103090094 Tokyo KYODO in English 0814 GMT 31 Mar 94 OW3103090094 Tokyo KYODO English BFN [By Kohei Murayama] [Text] Tokyo, March 31 KYODO -- Candidates with high English-speaking ability may have the edge when the new central bank governor is appointed in December, bank sources said. Bank of Japan [BOJ] Governor Yasushi Mieno himself hinted that such language skill is one key element to fulfilling his post during Japan's growing role in the global financial scene, according to sources close to Mieno. Mieno's four-year term comes to a close on December 16. A former senior Finance Ministry official said, "Mieno once told me that interpreters are available during official regular meetings of the BIS (the Bank for International Settlements) but not at such unofficial occasions as luncheons." The international organization based in Basel, Switzerland, acts as a bank for central banks of major industrialized nations. "Without confidence in English ability, Mieno said that one becomes very tired after desperately listening and being concerned about missing important points," said the official who requested anonymity. Meetings among the finance ministers and central bankers from the Group of Seven (G-7) major nations and financial leaders for the Washington-based International Monetary Fund and the World Bank are numerous. "Mieno attends meetings without interpreters case by case because he has a sufficient command of English," a BOJ source said. Mieno once served as the central bank director stationed in New York. Indeed, many instances have proven that English conversation skill provides advantages to Japan in global monetary affairs. An international financial source said unofficial talks -- rather, chatting -- are important now that policy coordination has become the centerpiece at international gatherings, especially in sounding out one another's true intentions. He also cited frequent round-the-clock contacts through telephone hot lines amid increasing cross-border dealings in currency and other markets. For the past five terms, former vice finance ministers and career BOJ officials have taken turns filling the post of BOJ governor. As to the candidates most likely to succeed Mieno, recent Japanese press reports have narrowed down the list of four former vice finance ministers to two -- Yasuo Matsushita and Yoshihiko Yoshino. Informed sources said Matsushita, chairman of Sakura Bank, is tipped as the top candidate because Yoshino, president of the Japan Development Bank, maintains his stance on rejecting strong recommendations from some senior BOJ and Finance Ministry officials. Matsushita, 68, served as vice finance minister -- the ministry's highest post for career bureaucrats -- for two years from June 1982. Yoshino, 63, assumed the post from 1986 to 1988. In terms of a command in English, Matsushita is known for his superb ability among the four candidates.
