FBIS3-30374 "dreeu022_y_94001" FBIS-EEU-94-022 Document Type:Daily Report 2 Feb 1994 YUGOSLAVIA Federal Bozovic: Serbs Ready for Talks With Albanians LD0102222294 Belgrade TANJUG in English 2147 GMT 1 Feb 94 LD0102222294 Belgrade TANJUG Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Belgrade, Feb 1 (TANJUG) -- Radoman Bozovic, chairman of the Chamber of Citizens, one of the two chambers of the Yugoslav parliament, said on Tuesday that Serbian and federal authorities were ready to discuss with the Albanian minority from the Serbian Province of Kosovo and Metohija the utilization of rights they have been given but were unwilling to discuss the secession of this province from Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Albanians in the Serbian Province of Kosovo just as other national minorities in Yugoslavia enjoy all civil rights in accordance with the highest international standards, Bozovic told a seven-member Norwegian parliamentary delegation, which is on a visit to Yugoslavia. As it was announced the Norwegian parliamentarians were interested about the state of human rights in the Serbian Province of Kosovo and Metohija. They assessed that it was in the interest of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and Norway to solve this problem in a peaceful manner, excluding all types of secession, and at the same time expressed the stand that the realization of human rights in general was being made difficult due to the international sanctions against Yugoslavia. At a separate meeting, the chairman of the Yugoslav parliament's Board for Foreign Policy, Borisav Jovic, told the Norwegian parliamentarians that the Albanians in Kosovo were not using the given rights due to their blind obedience to separatist organizations which are politically boycotting the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Under the influence of the separatists, Kosovo Albanians were banning their children from going to schools thought [as received] in their own language according to the state educational program, Jovic noted. He warned that the recognition of the Albanian separatism would lead to unforeseable chaos in Europe and to war in the Balkans. Jovic said that Europe's hugest contribution would be to convince the separatists in Kosovo that the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia was their state and that Europe would not stand behind them if they wished to tear this state. Jovic pointed out that not a single party in the federal parliament approves of separatist behaviour in Kosovo. The Norwegian parliamentarians are to stay in Yugoslavia until February 6 and are to visit the Kosovo towns of Pristina and Pec. They are to pay a visit to the capital city of the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Skoplje.
