FBIS4-22357 "jpusr035___94002" FBIS-USR-94-035 JPRS FBIS Report: Central Eurasia 29 March 1994 CAUCASUS ARMENIA Defense Minister on War Casualties, Reserve Officer Training Defense Minister on War Casualties, Reserve Officer Training 944K0989A Yerevan RESPUBLIKA ARMENIYA in Russian 29 Mar 94 p 1 944K0989A Yerevan RESPUBLIKA ARMENIYA Russian CSO [Report by A.Ye.: "The Loss Ratio Is One to Eleven"] [Text] On 27 March, Prime Minister G. Bagratyan signed a decree on organizing and holding in the second quarter of 1994 a training session for reserve officers and those liable for call-up. This event, as well as the scheduled spring draft, was the topic of a conference convoked yesterday by the government. The conference chairman, Minister of State Vazgen Sargisyan, divided the agenda into two parts. The first was devoted to measures on organizing the draft. The greater portion of the time was allocated for this topic; the second topic was combating desertions. In his introductory remarks, the minister of state noted that the upcoming draft will take place in much more favorable circumstances than the previous one. He enumerated by name the heads of local administrations who have completed the plans for training sessions. The directness with which he made public the names of top rayon officials who failed in the conduct of last year's draft was supported by argumentation confirming the inadequacy of local authorities. The address of military police chief V. Khorkhoruni dealt with the problem of draft dodging. According to him, thanks to the work of competent organs, more than 85 percent of deserters from the last draft have returned to military units. There are reasons to believe that this percentage will increase, and, conversely, the figures reflecting the scale of desertions will decline. The most significant part of what Minister of Defense Serge Sarkisyan said in his address was the figures on the Armenian forces' losses over the period since the beginning of October of last year. Over this period of time, we lost 690 soldiers. During the same time, Azerbaijani forces' casualties amounted to 8,000 killed, 25,000 wounded, and 1,000 missing in action. Among others who addressed the conference were the Ministry of Defense's chief of mobilization department, Arutyunyan, Minister of Internal Affairs V. Siradegyan, and Yerevan City Council Chairman V. Khachatryan. Prime Minister Grant Bagratyan also had the floor. The conference wrap-up was conducted by Republic of Armenia's vice president, Gagik Arutyunyan.
