FBIS3-60791 "jptot001__l94039" JPRS-TOT-94-001-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Terrorism FOUO 7 January 1994 LATIN AMERICA VENEZUELA Superior Court Judge Orders Release of Thor Halvorssen PA2412005793 Caracas EL UNIVERSAL in Spanish 22 Dec 93 p 1-19 PA2412005793 Caracas EL UNIVERSAL Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Article by Mirna Mendoza] [Excerpts] Judge Hector Marcano Batistini, in charge of the 18th Superior Criminal Court, has revoked the arrest warrant that had been issued against Thor Halvorssen, accused of being the mastermind behind a car bomb and financial terrorism case. As you may recall, 42d Criminal Court Judge Oscar Vera Sandoval, who was in charge of the proceedings, issued an arrest warrant against Halvorssen, former president of the CANTV [National Telephone Company of Venezuela] and former presidential commissioner of the Republic, as well as against other people indicted in this case, including Ramiro Francisco Helmeyer Oquendo. The case was turned over to a higher court where 18th Superior Court Judge Hector Marcano Batistini had to modify or ratify the sentence handed down by the lower court. Dr. Batistini announced his decision yesterday and just as expected, Halvorssen was released early this morning. Halvorssen, who had been confined for approximately two months in El Junquito Judicial Penitentiary, abandoned the prison, accompanied by his lawyers Luis Lugo and Vicente Puppio. [passage omitted] Vicente Puppio and Luis Lugo, who defended Thor Halvorssen, made statements as soon as they learned of Judge Marcano Batistini's decision. Puppio spoke first, explaining that "we always said that Halvorssen was innocent, as has been confirmed by the decision of the 18th Superior Court judge." Halvorssen was released, but we have to note that the judge of the 18th Criminal Tribunal left the investigation open. [passage omitted] Luis Lugo said that there is still an investigation pending on the case, "but that Halvorssen regained his total freedom." At 1145 Thor Halvorssen left El Junquito penitentiary, after the papers for his release were taken to the prison in compliance with the judicial order. Upon leaving he said that the decision shows that justice still prevails in Venezuela. He also reiterated his claim of innocence. He asked to be allowed to meet with his family and promised to hold a news conference in the coming days to explain his position and to report publicly about the irregular situation.
