FBIS4-11441 "drlat082_c_94006" FBIS-LAT-94-082 Daily Report 26 Apr 1994 MEXICO PRI To Choose Local Candidates Via Conventions PRI To Choose Local Candidates Via Conventions PA2704044694 Monterrey EL NORTE (Foreign Edition) in Spanish 26 Apr 94 p 1A PA2704044694 Monterrey EL NORTE (Foreign Edition) Spanish BFN [Report by Georgina Solis] [Text] Mexico City -- Yesterday, the PRI [Institutional Revolutionary Party] National Political Council decided that the selection of its candidates for senator, federal deputy, and assembly member will be made through open conventions with democratically elected delegates. The procedure will also be employed to select candidates for governor in the states of Chiapas and Tabasco, based on the agreement that was unanimously approved by the 201 council members who attended the 15th plenary session. PRI sources indicated the statutory procedure of direct consultation with rank-and-file members was ruled out, because the party could be splintered when it reaches the 21 August elections. They added that requesting the nominations of candidates, a statutory procedure, will be announced some time between today (Monday) and tomorrow, and that conventions will be held statewide next week. In internal meetings, the PRI's regional and territorial structure will elect the delegates to the conventions. The council also agreed that if a convention cannot be held, the State Political Council or the Federal District Political Council will choose the candidates. It also agreed that the state board or Federal District board will seek consensus and conciliation regarding those people who may be the most faithful representative of the PRI's ideology and run with the greatest possibility of winning. During the 15th plenary session of the PRI's top body, the delegates approved a report read by PRI National President Fernando Ortiz Arana in which he said the party will never stop demanding justice and the clarification of the murder of its presidential candidate Luis Donaldo Colosio. "In view of the outrage inflicted upon us, today, we are reiterating our demand that the investigations into the incident that brought mourning to Mexico fully explain motives and establish responsibilities," Ortiz said. Ignacio Pichardo Pagaza attended this meeting as PRI secretary general and announced the procedures and conditions for choosing the candidates for governor, senator, and deputy.
