FBIS3-902 "drafr051_e_94008" FBIS-AFR-94-051 Document Type:Daily Report 15 Mar 1994 WEST AFRICA Nigeria Government Warns Against Foreign Aggression AB1503200094 Lagos Radio Nigeria Network in English 1800 GMT 15 Mar 94 AB1503200094 Lagos Radio Nigeria Network Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] The Federal Government has said that it would not tolerate unprovoked aggression or intimidation by any foreign power. The minister of information and culture, Professor Jerry Gana, stated this today in Abuja at a ceremony to commemorate the 39th anniversary of the Nigerian Union of Journalists. Gbenga Onoyiga reports: [Begin recording] [Onoyiga] Prof. Gana said journalists should educate and mobilize people to resist the current interference by France, which he said has benefited so much from the sweat and resources of Nigerians. He called for the promotion of internal cohesion to firmly resist any attempt by that country to humiliate Nigeria. [Gana] Enough is enough. We are a very peace-loving nation. We are certainly leaders in Africa, but it is not always that leaders ought to (?just be humiliated). We believe that we have a responsibility, and we hope that diplomacy will solve it. But even if diplomacy does not solve it, I (?quickly) warn Nigerians to be united, to be mobilized, to be ready for any eventuality. [Onoyiga] The minister urged journalists to take up the challenge of defending human rights and social justice without destroying the solid fabric of the society. They should also protect the society from the growing abuse of the power of communication by developed nations. In a paper on government's past election, the chief press secretary to the head of state, Mr. David Attah, advised the media to keep clear the law as a catalyst in the development of the nation by aiding government in identifying problems and preparing solutions. He said the present administration should be judged on the quality of its decisions. Mr. Attah noted that the smear campaign by a section of the press has created widespread disaffection and this is why he has called for caution. The minister of federal capital territory, Lieutenant General Jeremiah Useni, in a message, urged journalists to uphold the enviable record of the past. The national president of the union, Mallam Sani Zorro, urged newsmen to use the day of solidarity to rededicate themselves to the great ideals of the founding fathers of the union. [end recording]
