FBIS3-9922 "drlat039_f_94002" FBIS-LAT-94-039 Document Type:Daily Report 28 Feb 1994 CENTRAL AMERICA El Salvador Unity Movement Candidate Criticizes Onusal's Assessment PA2702161494 San Salvador Radio Farabundo Marti Network in Spanish 1800 GMT 23 Feb 94 PA2702161494 San Salvador Radio Farabundo Marti Network Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Report by Imelda Alvarenga; from the "Facing the Moment" newscast] [Text] Jorge Martinez, Unity Movement presidential candidate, expressed disagreement on Wednesday with the Onusal [UN Observer Mission in El Salvador] Electoral Division's assessment that the Supreme Electoral Tribunal [TSE] registry is satisfactory. The Electoral Division's second report terms as satisfactory the voter registry even though approximately 60,000 persons will not be able to vote for lack of a voter identification card. [Begin Martinez recording] We consider the TSE's response to be insufficient. Too many people have been left without their voter identification cards. Tens of thousands of people who are registered to vote have been denied the right to be told why they will not get their voter identification cards. They are simply not given one. It is also said a large number of citizens requested their voter identification cards but their data was lost in the computers' memories. We believe things could have been improved. [end recording] Furthermore, the Unity Movement candidate criticized ARENA [Nationalist Republican Alliance] for using state resources in its campaign. [Begin Martinez recording] The media has been invaded by the government with a shameless electoral publicity in favor of ARENA. In fact, state-owned presses, like the one at the National Geographic Institute, have been printing political propaganda for ARENA. This has been reported by the workers. [end recording] Finally, Jorge Martinez announced that municipal government plans are being discussed with different candidates throughout the country. Martinez said his party's main strategy will be to sponsor the citizens' participation through open town council meetings.
