FBIS3-51245 "drlat011_j_94004" FBIS-LAT-94-011 Document Type:Daily Report 18 Jan 1994 Panama PA Head Says 3 Parties To Join; Endara on Molirena PA1401230694 Panama City EL PANAMA AMERICA in Spanish 12 Jan 94 p 8c PA1401230694 Panama City EL PANAMA AMERICA Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Article by Arnulfo Barroso Watson] [Text] Mireya Moscoso de Gruber, president of the Arnulfist Party [PA], has said three political parties have confirmed they will join the PA in the coming elections, while President Guillermo Endara has said he was "seriously assessing" his government's situation after negotiations were broken off with Molirena [Nationalist Republican Liberal Movement]. Moscoso de Gruber has said the Authentic Liberal Party (PLA), the Independent Democratic Union (UDI), and the Popular Alliance [AP] have confirmed they will join forces with the PA in the coming elections; nevertheless, according to a ruling issued last night by the Electoral Tribunal, the AP cannot participate in the coming elections. Moscoso de Gruber added that the Popular Nationalist Party will decide in the coming hours if it will participate in this alliance, while the Nationalist Unity Mission will decide on this issue during the weekend. Regarding Molirena, the political leader has said that if this party will remember that the PA must lead the presidential ticket, negotiations can be resumed. According to the latest Electoral Tribunal statistics, the PA has 130,000 registered members. Meanwhile, its allies, the PLA and the UDI, have 27,000 and 24,000 registered members respectively. The opposition Democratic Revolutionary Party has 180,000 registered voters, and its possible allies--the Labor Party and Liberal Republican Party--have 80,000 and 30,000 registered voters respectively. Meanwhile, President Endara has told EL PANAMA AMERICA that he will decide on the state of his government regarding Molirena when his conscious tells him what he must do. "It is a critical situation, because there is no doubt that when two parties of my government cannot reach an agreement, this can logically have some consequences; nevertheless, as president I am removed from partisan interests," he said. Endara reiterated that for the time being he has not made any decision on the situation of the Molirena members in his government. Nevertheless, he said that he will make a decision that is best for Panama. Meanwhile, the president has reported that the nation's current political situation might prevent his participation in the inauguration for new Honduran President Carlos Roberto Reina, scheduled for 27 January.
