FBIS4-14813 "drsov064_m_94002" FBIS-SOV-94-064 Daily Report 1 Apr 1994 CENTRAL ASIA Tajikistan Rakhmonov, Pakistanis Reach Agreements Rakhmonov, Pakistanis Reach Agreements LD0104145594 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service in Russian 0903 GMT 1 Apr 94 LD0104145594 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service Russian BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Vladimir Shvedov] [Text] Delhi, 1 Apr -- The Government of Pakistan will allocate Tajikistan $20 million in payment for purchasing Pakistani consumer goods. This is one of the results of the visit to Pakistan by an official delegation from Tajikistan headed by Supreme Council Chairman Emomali Rakhmonov. During the course of the talks held in Islamabad, the parties agreed to study the possibility of carrying out a joint project worth $500 million to erect a powerful electric power station in the south of Tajikistan. According to the plan, Pakistan should receive power from the station across the territory of Afghanistan. At their meeting, the Tajik leader discussed with Pakistan's President Faruq Leghari and Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto a wide range of international issues concerning, among other things, the situation in central and southwest Asia. The head of the Pakistani government said, among other things, that the unstable situation in neighboring Afghanistan and Tajikistan was having a negative effect on the situation throughout the Central Asian region. Bhutto expressed the hope that the strife in these two countries would be ended as soon as possible. She also stressed that the use of military force to solve controversial problems was unacceptable both for the Tajik and Afghan peoples. In turn, Rakhmonov said that with the start of talks in Moscow between the Tajik leadership and the opposition, the situation in the republic would undergo serious alterations toward normalization. Tajikistan will soon come out of its political and economic crisis, he declared. Another important result of the talks held in the Pakistani capital was the signing by Tajikistan and Pakistan of a protocol on developing amicable relations between the two countries as well as an agreement to expand bilateral economic cooperation.
