FBIS4-56283 "drlat084_h_94001" FBIS-LAT-94-084 Daily Report 29 Apr 1994 Honduras Head of Joint Chiefs of Staff Views Recruitment Head of Joint Chiefs of Staff Views Recruitment PA2904194194 Tegucigalpa EL PERIODICO DE HONDURAS in Spanish 29 Apr 94 p 27 PA2904194194 Tegucigalpa EL PERIODICO DE HONDURAS Spanish BFN [Text] Tegucigalpa -- General Lazaro Avila Soleno, head of the Armed Forces Joint Chiefs of Staff, has emphatically stated: "We have always respected the established command." The second in command within the Honduran Armed Forces has responded briefly to the reporters' questions, presuming the Army commander in chief is the one who is authorized to speak. Nevertheless, the reporters insisted on knowing his position on the new regulation that may be established for the recruitment of military personnel. He has said all Hondurans must be aware of their responsibilities, regardless of their area of expertise. He added that as members of the Armed Forces and as soldiers, the military is concerned about situations that may emerge at any moment and which might require the Army's support, "but the Armed Forces will always fulfill its institutional mission," he has said. Avila has said no conditions have been established for acceptance of the proposal on educational and voluntary military service, because Honduras' top authorities will make the decision via Congress. He has said history will judge those who make the decision. Avila has reiterated he could not express personal opinions out of respect for the mandates of the Constitution of the Republic and the highest authorities. Regarding a possible weakening of the Armed Forces when the new recruitment model is implemented, Avila has said he could not predict the future, but he assured that the Army is a solid, constitutional, and permanent institution that is not in any danger. Avilo trusts the legislative branch's decision will be the most advantageous, indeed the best for the country. He has said there may be options if voluntary recruitment fails; "for every great crisis or problem there are great solutions," he has said. Avila has said various options have been examined in depth: "We always examine in peacetime what may happen in a crisis," he has said.
