FBIS3-60974 "jptot002__l94072" JPRS-TOT-94-002-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Terrorism FOUO 12 January 1994 WEST EUROPE REGIONAL AFFAIRS Grey Wolves' Turkish Affiliate Active in Europe Turkes' Hit Man Linked to Club, Nadir in Cyprus NC0601211494 Istanbul AYDINLIK in Turkish 2 Jan 94 p 11 NC0601211494 Istanbul AYDINLIK Language: Turkish Article Type:BFN [Report by M. Salih Ceviker] [Excerpts] Frankfurt -- It has been learned that Alparslan Turkes, leader of MHP [Nationalist Movement Party], met with the national taekwondo team member Kenan Aygun -- whom the Counterguerrilla uses to commit assassinations -- in Frankfurt on 25 December, last Saturday. It is being claimed that Turkes asked Aygun to carry out assignments to be given by MHP's organization abroad. [passage omitted] The [north] Cyprus press had carried reports to the effect that Aygun, who met Turkes at the Frankfurt headquarters of the Turkish Federation last Saturday, was working in affiliation with the [northern] Cyprus's Taekwondo Federation, which is under Counterguerrilla control, and that he was involved in various murders and stabbings. Aygun had told the newspaper KIBRIS, owned by Asil Nadir, that the Directorate of [north] Cyprus Civilian Affairs Department, which is known to be the headquarters of the Counterguerrilla in Cyprus, had asked him to abduct a Turkish officer held in prison on the Greek Cypriot side. YENIDUZEN quoted Aygun, who is reportedly a member of the inner circle of Nadir's bodyguards, as saying that MIT [Turkish Intelligence Organization] interfered in the 1991 elections in northern Cyprus and that the Commander of the Cyprus Peace Forces General Ali Yalcin had sent a threatening letter to the leftist [Turkish] Cypriots asking them to support the National Unity Party. It was learned that Aygun, who was expelled from Cyprus, was beaten up and gravely injured in Germany for his revelations. It was reported that the attack took place in Frankfurt's Galluswarte quarter on 6 October 1992. It was learned that Aygun, who was hit on the head with an iron bar and sustained knife wounds to his forehead and abdomen, was taken to hospital by police. Noting that the attackers also searched Aygun's home, the police officers said that the attack was designed not to kill him but warn him.
