FBIS4-48598 "drafr099_c_94004" FBIS-AFR-94-099 Daily Report 23 May 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA Mandela, Buthelezi Meet on Land Issue Mandela, Buthelezi Meet on Land Issue MB2305091794 Johannesburg SAPA in English 0858 GMT 23 May 94 MB2305091794 Johannesburg SAPA English BFN [Text] Cape Town May 23 SAPA -- President Nelson Mandela and home affairs minister Chief Mangosuthu Buthelezi held talks on Monday morning on the KwaZulu land issue and the appointment of the KwaZulu/Natal provincial cabinet, a spokesman for the president's office said. Press spokesman Mr Joel Netshitenzhe said at 10.30 that the meeting -- at Mr Mandela's official residence Westbrooke -- "should be over by now". The two men had talked for about one-and-a-half hours, he said. As far as he knew, deputy president Mr FW de Klerk had not been present. The intention was not to issue a press statement before the cabinet meeting due to start at 11AM. Earlier, minister of land affairs Mr Derek Hanekom cancelled a press conference scheduled for Monday so that the president and cabinet could discuss the KwaZulu land issue before he was asked to answer any further questions on it. A spokesman for his office said the press conference, set up early last week, was to have dealt with land restitution. After the KwaZulu land issue hit the headlines questions on it at the press conference were unavoidable. "Mr Hanekom would not like to comment until we hear something from the president," she said. Last week the ANC in KwaZulu/Natal asked to be excused from proceedings in the provincial cabinet after expressing dissatisfaction with the ministerial portfolios allocated to it. Provincial premier Dr Frank Mdladlose said a meeting to discuss the issue had been called for Tuesday. It was also reported last week that the day before former President de Klerk was voted out of office, he ceded control over some three million hectares of KwaZulu state land to a trust headed by King Goodwill Zwelethini. ANC leaders in Natal were enraged by the move, calling it a "deal made behind the people's backs".
