FBIS4-9545 "dreeu082_i_94008" FBIS-EEU-94-082 Daily Report 26 Apr 1994 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA UN: Humanitarian Groups `Overstated' Victims UN: Humanitarian Groups `Overstated' Victims AU2604145794 Paris AFP in English 1422 GMT 26 Apr 94 AU2604145794 Paris AFP English BFN [By Bernard Estrade] [Text] Sarajevo, April 26 (AFP) -- Humanitarian organisations overstated the number of victims caused by Bosnian Serb shelling of the Moslem enclave of Gorazde, UN and aid groups said here Tuesday. The office of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees [UNHCR] had earlier spoken of 715 killed and 1,970 wounded. Of these, 600 were said to be seriously hurt and required immediate evacuation. But UN and humanitarian organisation officials here said the toll should probably be divided by three. The actual number of those killed in the three-week Serb offensive against the eastern Bosnian enclave was at most 250 and the number of those wounded 600 to 700, they said. Monday evening, some 200 seriously wounded patients had been helicoptered out of the Gorazde hospital which was now "empty", officials said. UNHCR spokesman Peter Kessler acknowledged on Tuesday that casualty figures earlier given should be "scaled down" and "are perhaps not all serious." Obviously embarrassed, he said that it was impossible for the time being to say by how much figures had been exaggerated. "We are in a war situation and in a war everybody uses propaganda," he said. "All the figures we gave were based on reports from our representatives in the field," a UNHCR official, who wished to remain anonymous, said. "What we did not know, and what they did not tell us, was that information given originated with Bosnian authorities in Gorazde and that they had not checked it themselves," he added. The UNHCR team and that of Medecins Sans Frontieres (Doctors Without Borders) were in shelters and had little opportunity to move around town, notably during the last week. "It was the same for UN military observers," according to an officer at the headquarters of the UN Protection Force (UNPROFOR) here. The first doubts regarding the reported number of casualties emerged on Sunday when UN troops first arrived in the town after NATO had threatened to bomb Bosnian Serbs if they did not stop their bombardment and withdraw from around the city. Those evacuated, according to officials here, have been mainly soldiers. Monday evening, a senior UNPROFOR officer was busy asking: "Where are the wounded? We're looking for them..."
