FBIS3-10728 "drlat048_n_94003" FBIS-LAT-94-048 Document Type:Daily Report 11 Mar 1994 Chile Foreign Minister Defends Human Rights Vote on Cuba PY1103023794 Santiago Radio Cooperativa Network in Spanish 2200 GMT 10 Mar 94 PY1103023794 Santiago Radio Cooperativa Network Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Report by Carmen Castro at the Foreign Ministry] [Text] Chilean Foreign Minister Enrique Silva Cimma today fully justified the Chilean vote condemning human rights violations in Cuba. The Chilean Government adopted two positions, probably in an attempt to seek a fair position on the Cuban situation when this issue was raised again at the annual session of the UN Human Rights Commission in Geneva. A resolution condemning human rights violations in Cuba was issued during this session. This initiative was approved by 24 votes to nine, while 20 abstained from voting. The UN commission pointed out the need to observe freedom of the press and association in Cuba. The U.S.-sponsored resolution was supported by the Chilean Government, which stated, however, that the economic blockade of Cuba should not have been allowed. In this regard, Silva Cimma said: [Begin recording] [Silva Cimma] You should not only report that Chile voted against human rights violations in Cuba, but that Chile backed the Cuban request to condemn the unilateral support for the blockade. [Unidentified reporter] This means that Chile has adopted different positions on the economic blockade of Cuba and on the human rights situation. [Silva Cimma] Merely because... No, not about the human rights situation, but human rights violations. We believe that unilateral blockades are very harmful, and that human rights must be protected worldwide [Reporter] Minister, does Chile concur with the special rapporteur's report on systematic human rights violations in Cuba? [Silva Cimma] It would be an open lack of respect to question a report by a human rights rapporteur. For many years we have demanded respect and positive votes for the rapporteur's reports on human rights in Chile. We continue supporting this position. [end recording] Silva Cimma said Chile is concerned about any human rights violations in Cuba. He specifically mentioned the right to life and to freedom for people. He said the substantial progress that has been made in Cuba in the social and health areas were admitted especially in Geneva, and that consequently it was not appropriate for the Rio Group to support the blockade of Cuba in that forum.
