FBIS4-45573 "jptdd028__l94073" JPRS-TDD-94-028-L JPRS Narcotics 25 May 1994 EAST ASIA THAILAND Deputy Director of Central Bank Backs Money Laundering Law Deputy Director of Central Bank Backs Money Laundering Law 94WD0433F Bangkok THE NATION in English 25 May 94 pp B1, 2 94WD0433F Bangkok THE NATION English CSO [Excerpts] The bank of Thailand has announced strong support for legislation to curb money laundering, saying a money-laundering law will boost Thailand's image and raise the standard of the Thai financial system. Dr Bandid Nijthavorn, the central bank's deputy director of the Research Department, said if Thailand wants to develop further as a financial centre and win recognition from the international community, it must introduce legislation, similar to that in Hong Kong or Singapore, to make money laundering unlawful. Bandid's remark, made yesterday at the Journalists Association of Thailand, was the first time that the central bank came out unequivocally in support of a money-laundering law. The drug scandal surrounding MP Thanong Siriprechapong, who was forced to resign, dealt a blow to the Thai Parliament and Thailand was seen as a haven for money laundering. The Chuan administration has come under domestic and international pressure to introduce money-laundering legislation. But Bandid said the legislation should not only seek to curb illegal drug activities but also cover other criminal acts and political corruption. [passage omitted] Bandid said that old laws seeking to curb money laundering are not broad enough to cover economic crimes, so it is necessary to introduce a brand new money-laundering law, which should seek to: 1. Penalize all individuals associated with money-laundering activities as a criminal offence; 2. Require financial institutions to report to the authorities unusual transactions; 3. Lay down the same system for all financial institutions to file reports of suspicious transactions. Bandid cautioned that the legislation should not create unwarranted burdens on the financial institutions.
