FBIS4-36927 "drnes115_s_94008" FBIS-NES-94-115 Daily Report 15 Jun 1994 Iran Tehran Encourages OPEC `Understanding' Tehran Encourages OPEC `Understanding' NC1506104894 Tehran Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran First Program Network in Persian 0345 GMT 15 Jun 94 NC1506104894 Tehran Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran First Program Network Persian BFN [Commentary by the News Research and Commentaries Group] [Text] The petroleum ministers of the 12 OPEC member-countries are to meet in Vienna today to decide on ways to strengthen the oil market and to determine the production ceiling for the next three months. Also on the OPEC agenda are discussions for the election of a new OPEC secretary general, and changing the headquarters of the OPEC Secretariat. What is gleaned from the comments by the OPEC members' ministers before the commencement of the session is that an atmosphere of tranquility and understanding exists among the OPEC members on improving the oil market; and in this encouraging atmosphere, OPEC is expected to set the production ceiling at 24.5 million barrels per day and to display its determination on OPEC's uniformity in improving oil prices. It should be noted that during OPEC's recent session held in March this year, members set the production ceiling at 24.52 million barrels per day for 1994 in a bid to prevent a drop in oil prices and committed themselves to help the stability of the oil market by observing the set production ceilings. Also, the drop in oil prices stopped two months ago and a relative improvement was observed in the international oil market. On the basis of figures published by oil sources, there has been a $3-$4 increase in the price of each barrel of oil over the past two months. Although this is encouraging, it is still a far cry from the basic OPEC price which is $21 per barrel. Experts believe that the major reason for increased oil demand during the past months is renewed economic growth in the industrial world and the West's storing of oil for its fall and winter fuel needs. This increase in demand by major consumers and the observance of the OPEC ceiling production and oil supply have led to an improvement in world oil prices. Informed oil circles believe that the OPEC members that depend on their oil income as the major source of foreign exchange income, have lost billions of dollars because of the drop in oil prices during the past months. Therefore, in order to safeguard the interests of OPEC and of the members in this important international organization, it is necessary to improve oil prices and to increase them to $21-per barrel. Now, on the eve of the 96th OPEC session, it seems that the atmosphere of understanding among members, controlling the production ceiling and the commitment of member countries to observe production ceilings will be an attainable objective. At any rate, the Islamic Republic of Iran welcomes any step by OPEC that will lead to an increase in the prices of crude oil, and in its oil policy it underlines the need for OPEC's power, understanding among members, and the safeguarding of this organization's interests.
