FBIS4-20882 "jptac003__l94003" JPRS-TAC-94-003-L JPRS Arms Control 18 March 1994 EAST EUROPE CZECH REPUBLIC Reports Claim Military Possesses Bacteriological Weapons Reports Claim Military Possesses Bacteriological Weapons Second Report in CESKY DENIK AU2103133394 Prague CESKY DENIK in Czech 18 Mar 94 p 1 AU2103133394 Prague CESKY DENIK Czech BFN [Jan Benes and Lubor Kohout report: "A Crime Endangering Central Europe!"] [Text] One of the places where, until recently, our army concealed very dangerous bacteriological and virological weapons was the Central Military Hospital in Prague-Stresovice! CESKY DENIK reporters have discovered that strains for bacteriological weapons were stored, without expert supervision and the necessary caution, in a laboratory leased to a private company on the grounds of the Central Military Hospital in Stresovice. They were developed on the basis of a former Warsaw Pact treaty in a research institute in Techonin in East Bohemia. The laboratory, with its containers full of cultures for dangerous infectious germs prepared for combat use, was leased to the private Klinlab company. According to the information available, Deputy Defense Minister Engineer Miroslav Kalousek was involved in establishing this company and in leasing part of the Central Military Hospital, including the facility used by this company. The Defense Ministry also purchased expensive laboratory equipment for the Klinlab company. The whole project was described as top secret and of special significance. Some of the containers, in which various kinds of bacteria for weapons "cultivated" by Czechoslovak military experts were stored, were sold into private hands, that is, to the Klinlab company. Bacteriological and viral weapons are among the most insidious and dangerous. International agreements commit the Czech Republic to preventing their use, development, and storage. It is apparent from the findings of the CESKY DENIK reporters that the cultures for the bacteriological weapons were stored in the Central Military Hospital with the knowledge of some of our most senior military representatives.
