FBIS3-15703 "drsov046_b_94006" FBIS-SOV-94-046 Document Type:Daily Report 9 Mar 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political Issues Communist Bodies Discuss Unification Issues PM0803145594 Moscow PRAVDA in Russian 5 Mar 94 p 1 PM0803145594 Moscow PRAVDA Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Unattributed report: "One More Step Toward Unity"] [Text] A meeting of the Political Executive Committee of the Union of Communist Parties-CPSU [UCP-CPSU] Council and the Secretariat of the Russian Communist Workers Party [RCWP] Central Committee has taken place. Questions of joint actions to implement the decisions of the 29th CPSU Congress and the Third RCWP Congress were examined at it. The discussion confirmed the unity of views of the UCP-CPSU and the RCWP on the following basic issues: -- the transfer of political power into the hands of the workers and the restoration of the soviets as the highest form of democracy; -- the struggle against the restoration of capitalism, and the country's return to the socialist path of development; -- the repeal of the Belovezhskaya Forest agreements and the restoration of the Union of Soviet Socialists Republics. The UCP-CPSU and the RCWP regard the ruling regime in Russia and the imposed Constitution as antipeople elements and will jointly endeavor to have the Constitution's adoption judged unlawful at the Russian Federation Supreme Court. In response to the propaganda hysteria surrounding the political amnesty, participants in the meeting stated that they categorically reject violence as a means of resolving social problems. The UCP-CPSU and the RCWP consider that national accord and the establishment of capitalism by force are incompatible. It is not the political amnesty which is provoking a civil war but unemployment, hunger, the plunder of the people's property, the poverty of millions of working people, and the monstrous enrichment of a few people. The RCWP's admission to the UCP-CPSU as an associate member is regarded as a step toward rallying the Soviet Union's communists. It was noted that the unification of communists is being hindered by the opportunist tendencies remaining within it. It was emphasized that it is essential to concentrate efforts on creating in the future a single Communist Party of Russia based on Marxist-Leninist principles. Such a party could take as its basis the current programs of the UCP-CPSU, the RCWP, and other parties. The path to the organizational unification of the communist parties existing today lies in extending unity of action in the struggle to defend the working people's interests. The UCP-CPSU and the RCWP will use in this struggle all means and methods (both parliamentary and extraparliamentary) known from the practice of the world communist movement, and will consider the development of an organized workers resistance [organizovannoye rabocheye soprotivleniye] as a task of the utmost importance.
