FBIS3-27511 "drchi037_w_94012" FBIS-CHI-94-037 Document Type:Daily Report 24 Feb 1994 HONG KONG & MACAO Hong Kong Zhang Junsheng Views Response to UK Releasing Details HK2302141894 Hong Kong WEN WEI PO in Chinese 23 Feb 94 p A12 HK2302141894 Hong Kong WEN WEI PO Language: Chinese Article Type:BFN [Report: "Zhang Junsheng Stresses That If British Side Publishes Contents of Talks, Chinese Side Will Make Corresponding Response"] [Text] If the British side unilaterally releases details of the Sino-British talks, the Chinese side will definitely respond accordingly, Zhang Junsheng, deputy director of the XINHUA News Agency Hong Kong Branch, said today. Releasing the records of the Sino-British talks will do no credit to Chris Patten, he noted. Present at the 1994 International Calligraphy Exhibition yesterday, Zhang Junsheng said: We never objected to any arrangement to release the records of the 17 rounds of talks between China and Britain on the arrangements for the 1994-95 elections in Hong Kong. But, at the beginning of the talks, the Chinese and British sides agreed to keep the contents of the talks secret, and if the contents are to be released, this should only be done after prior consent is reached between the two sides through diplomatic channels. The British side first said that the contents of the talks would be released by the British Hong Kong Government. But now they say that they will be jointly released by the British Government and the British Hong Kong Government. This move that the British Hong Kong Government is going to make indicates that they has gone farther and farther on the road against cooperation. Zhang Junsheng added that it was a natural outcome for the British side to take this step. Chris Patten provoked disputes as soon as the talks started. During the talks, the British side played many little tricks to interfere in and undermine the talks. Finally, the British side unilaterally terminated the talks, and tabled the so-called constitutional reform package in the Legislative Council [Legco]. Thus the talks terminated and broke down. Zhang Junsheng said: We never hoped to see disputes break out. During the talks, we upheld the principle of the "three conformities" and we hoped to reach an agreement with the British side. However, the British side unilaterally terminated the talks and quit the negotiating table. In spite of this, we still wish to see the British side return to the negotiating table, of course, on condition that the part of the constitutional reform package that has already been tabled to Legco is withdrawn before talks are resumed according to the principle of the "three conformities." It is a pity that the British side has now gone farther and farther.
