FBIS4-65289 "drweu094_n_94003" FBIS-WEU-94-094 Daily Report 24 Apr 1994 NORDIC COUNTRIES Finland EU Opposition in Center Party Seen `Weak' EU Opposition in Center Party Seen `Weak' 94EN0318C Helsinki HUFVUDSTADSBLADET in Swedish 24 Apr 94 p 6 94EN0318C Helsinki HUFVUDSTADSBLADET Swedish CSO [Article by Bjarne Nitovuori: "Center's Heated EU Fight Did Not Take Place"] [Excerpts] Despite the speculations beforehand, European Union [EU] did not become the major battle issue at the meeting of the Center Party delegation in Tornio yesterday. The question was touched upon just briefly, at least during the first day of the meeting. There was even less debate about former party leader Paavo Vayrynen's recent proposal that the EU membership should be postponed for a few years. Vayrynen himself had earlier promised to participate in the debate only if he was asked. No one put any questions to him. A few speakers made a few snide remarks about Vayrynen, but he did not allow himself to be provoked. At yesterday's news conference Prime Minister Esko Aho, the party chairman, explained the absence of a passionate EU debate by the fact that EU is not an issue that divides the party, that regardless of their position on the EU the members regard the Center Party as the best channel for influence. Resigned Opponents Yesterday's debate gave an indication that the categorical EU opposition in fact is rather weak within the party. A large number of those who have opposed joining the EU have resigned themselves to it and are more intent on making the best of the situation, on minimizing the damage from a membership. [passage omitted] Draft Program Changed If the EU debate in the delegation was unusually tame, it was said to have been all the more lively at the party executive committee on Friday [22 April] and yesterday morning, when a draft program, to be approved by the party congress in Jyvaskyla in July, was discussed. In a previous draft it was stated that "Finland supports the development a European union, which expands, opens up and gradually deepens and functions according to the subsidiarity principle." But at the discussion by the party executive committee the expression "European union" was eliminated and replaced by "European cooperation." This was in order for the program to apply regardless of whether Finland becomes an EU member or whether one is satisfied with the EEA [European Economic Area] solution, explained activity leader Seppo Niemela, who has headed the program work. [passage omitted]
