FBIS3-55131 "drsov004_d_94007" FBIS-SOV-94-004 Document Type:Daily Report 6 Jan 1994 Regional Affairs Vologda Official Protests Governor's Plan for Oblast Duma PM0501150294 Moscow IZVESTIYA in Russian 5 Jan 94 First Edition p 2 PM0501150294 Moscow IZVESTIYA Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Viktor Filippov report: "Vologda Governor Forms Docile Duma"] [Text] Vologda -- Top state officials have again fallen out in Vologda. Governor Nikolay Podgornov has set the local duma elections for 20 March. But president's representative Guriy Sudakov has publicly described the future duma at a press conference as a "device for voting through projects prepared by the administration." Professor Guriy Sudakov delivered this sharply worded statement after analyzing how many documents on the local duma elections and local self-government organs signed by Nikolay Podgornov are in line with the Constitution and the president's Edict "On the Basic Principles of the Organization of State Power in the Components of the Russian Federation." "The system of powers in the region should be balanced," according to president's representative Sudakov. "But since October we have only had executive-administrative power operating here. In addition, the temptation has arisen to exploit the upcoming elections to consolidate that priority forever. Under the president's edict, the rayon self-government organ is to be formed from representatives of the self-government organs of villages, settlements, and so forth. But according to the statute signed by the Vologda Oblast head of administration, the rayon assemblies will be formed solely from the heads of local administrations." In his opinion, representative power in Vologda Oblast will, if formed according to Governor Podgornov's conception, be subordinate to executive power. Among other things, the governor has set tough deadlines within which the future oblast duma must submit legal acts to him for signature. The membership of the Vologda Oblast Duma has been determined by the governor at 15 deputies, only six of whom will work on a permanent basis. The governor has allowed workers in organs of executive power to combine their duties with deputy status. President's representative Sudakov fears that on 20 March the people of Vologda will get an administrative-industrial lobby obedient to the governor instead of a proper legislative organ.
