FBIS4-49010 "drchi084_b_94001" FBIS-CHI-94-084 Daily Report 29 Apr 1994 United States & General Clinton's Meeting With Dalai Lama Called `Interference' Clinton's Meeting With Dalai Lama Called `Interference' HK2904121894 Hong Kong AFP in English 1200 GMT 29 Apr 94 HK2904121894 Hong Kong AFP English BFN [Text] Beijing, April 29 (AFP)--Beijing denounced Friday the meeting in Washington between President Bill Clinton and Tibet's exiled spiritual leader, the Dalai Lama, as "severe interference" in China's internal affairs. "The meeting ran counter to the position of recognising Tibet as a part of China's territory, which the United States has repeatedly asserted, and constitutes a severe interference in China's internal affairs," a Foreign Ministry spokesman said. According to the White House, Clinton joined a meeting Thursday between the Dalai Lama and Vice President Al Gore to discuss efforts to initiate a dialogue with the Chinese leadership on the future of Tibet. The meeting had gone ahead "despite the repeated representations and opposition of the Chinese government," the spokesman said. "We demand that the US side keep up its commitment to recognising Tibet as a part of China...and refrain from taking actions which may undermine Sino-US relations," he added. Chinese communist forces moved into Tibet in 1951 and took control of the Himalayan region. The United States has repeatedly cited the example of Tibet when criticising the human rights situation in China. The spokesman also slammed the passage through the U.S. Congress of a foreign operations bill that grants 30 million dollars for the creation of a U.S. radio network to broadcast into China, including Tibet, and other Asian nations. The real motive behind the establishment of Radio Free Asia "is to make use of the media to interfere in the domestic affairs of China and other Asian countries," the spokesman said. "The move by the US Congress constitutes an encroachment upon the universally acknowledged basic norms governing international relations." Together with progress in human rights, one of Clinton's preconditions for the renewal in June of China's preferential trading status is allow foreign radio broadcasts into the country. China has repeatedly blocked Voice of America broadcasts in the past.
