FBIS4-65879 "drweu101_i_94001" FBIS-WEU-94-101 Daily Report 24 May 1994 FRANCE Izetbegovic Meets With EU Candidates Izetbegovic Meets With EU Candidates BR2405142394 Paris LE FIGARO in French 24 May 94 p 5 BR2405142394 Paris LE FIGARO French BFN [Unattributed report: "Izetbegovic Meets With Leaders of RPR-UDF and PSF Lists"] [Text] Dominique Baudis and Michel Rocard, the leaders of the two main lists of candidates for the European elections who had talks with Bosnian President Alija Izetbegovic yesterday, stood by their positions on the arms embargo on Bosnia. It is known that Izetbegovic has come to Paris at the invitation of philosopher and writer Bernard-Henri Levy, who is presenting a list called "Europe Begins at Sarajevo" in the elections. Dominique Baudis (UDF-RPR [French Democratic Union-Rally for the Republic] majority) stressed the risks of lifting the embargo, while Socialist Michel Rocard expressed the view that it is the ultimate means of pressure in view of the UN "paralysis." "I noted a series of proposals which I will submit to Prime Minister Balladur and Foreign Minister Juppe in the next few hours," Mr. Baudis said after meeting with Izetbegovic for almost one hour. Expressing the view that there were "opportunities for speeding up the peace process rather than the war," he said he understands "the Bosnian president's concern to achieve a balance of forces on the ground." "At present," he said, "there is an imbalance in favor of the Serbs and to the detriment of the Bosnians." UN Resolutions Judging the desire to restore a balance of forces to be "legitimate," Baudis saw two ways of achieving it: a reduction in the level of armaments of the Serbs, or arms supplies to the Bosnians. The first [as published] option, he added, "presents risks of the fighting intensifying with hundreds of thousands more people being killed, and the fighting spreading to the whole Balkan region and perhaps elsewhere in Europe. There is a different solution," Mr. Baudis said, which consists not in supplying arms to the Bosnians but in "ensuring the implementation of the UN resolutions which involve the withdrawal of Serbian heavy weapons from Bosnia. I advocate the solution which kills least people. I prefer to see weapons leaving Bosnia rather than new weapons arriving there. Fewer weapons means fewer victims," Mr. Baudis said. Mr. Rocard, for his part, said it was necessary for "the United Nations to implement its own resolutions and use force. If that does not happen," he added, "it becomes vital to allow the Bosnians the right to defend themselves, in other words to lift the embargo." He termed a question on the link between his stance and the European elections "insulting." Brice Lalonde had a telephone conversation with the Bosnian president while he was holding a political meeting near les Saintes- Maries-de-la-Mer. According to the leader of Ecology Generation, "Mr. Izetbegovic knows what support we have been giving him for two years." Yesterday, Bernard-Henri Levy said he and his friends planned to officially submit their list by the closing date of 27 May, "unless there is a major development -- in other words either a change in government policy, which must take a stance against the partition of Bosnia, or a major parliamentary initiative." According to Mr. Schwartzenberg, Izetbegovic said he was satisfied with the position taken by Michel Rocard, who "understands" the situation.
