FBIS4-64129 "drsov103_e_94001" FBIS-SOV-94-103 Daily Report 26 May 1994 UKRAINE International Affairs Premier Says Moscow Talks With Crimea `Ended in a Draw' Premier Says Moscow Talks With Crimea `Ended in a Draw' LD2605121794 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1111 GMT 26 May 94 LD2605121794 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [By UKRINFORM correspondent Sergey Balykov for TASS] [Text] Kiev May 26 TASS -- Ukrainian Acting Prime Minister Yukhym Zvyahilskyy believes the talks in Moscow on the Black Sea Fleet and the Crimea ended in a draw. "In Moscow we did not win, but did not lose either," he told UKRINFORM upon his return from the Russian capital. Zvyahilskyy described the talks as "very tense and nervous." "We tried to find variants of a positive solution of the tasks set by the Ukrainian president. We made concessions, but only those which could not result in the loss of Ukrainian wealth, its independence and sovereignty," he stressed. The head of government said that five variants of the agreement, including that of the president, were submitted for Russian consideration. "The fact that none of them was adopted does not mean a defeat," he stressed and added that positive moments achieved in Moscow would help resume talks "more concretely, on the most acute issue." The second round of negotiations is expected to begin in Kiev in 10-15 days. According to Zvyahilskyy, during the Moscow talks "severe fight was going on for each word, for each sentence in the document which can help untie the Black Sea knot." He believes that the sides succeeded in general to positively solve the problem of sharing the disputed navy. Sevastopol will house the major base of the Russian Navy, while Balaklava and Donuzlav will become the main bases of the Ukrainian fleet, according to him. "Donuzlav is a mighty and well-equipped base and Ukraine had no serious objections" about it. "Disagreements emerged after the Russian side raised the issue of basing its navy in other ports," he explained. Zvyahilskyy hopes that the second round of negotiations will be "more constructive" and will result in the signing of the document on the Black Sea Fleet.
