FBIS3-60677 "jptnd002___94005" JPRS-TND-94-002 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:PROLIFERATION ISSUES 18 January 1994 EAST ASIA REGIONAL AFFAIRS Seoul Officials `Optimistic' After 23 December DPRK-U.S. Contact SK2312022693 Seoul YONHAP in English 0214 GMT 23 Dec 93 SK2312022693 Seoul YONHAP Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Seoul, Dec. 23 (YONHAP)--Seoul officials said Thursday they remained optimistic of a breakthrough in the North Korean nuclear impasse after another Pyongyang-Washington contact in New York the same day. One official, declining to be identified, said that a North Korea-U.S. high-level contact for a third round of nuclear talks may be agreed on next month. Confirming the New York contact early Thursday morning, the officials said that the United States demanded North Korea accept inspections acceptable to the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and necessary to continue IAEA safeguards. It also demanded resumption of inter-Korean dialogue on the nuclear issue and meaningful negotiations, they said. The U.S. side made it clear that the demands were preconditions, they said. ``You could say there are forward movements,'' said one official. The very fact that the contacts are occurring quickly signifies that the differences between North Korea and the United States are ``not very big,'' he said. The two sides met on Monday with North Korea's response to the two demands by South Korea and the United States. The response was rated as positive by both Seoul and Washington, though not enough. Ho Chong, deputy chief of the North Korean mission to the United Nations and the representative at the New York contact, said he suggested ``simultaneous steps'' in meeting demands of both sides. Pyongyang reportedly suggested accepting overall IAEA inspections on all of its declared sites instead of limiting them to handpicked facilities in exchange for suspension of the South Korea-U.S. joint military exercise Team Spirit and the scheduling of the third round of high-level talks.
