FBIS4-10274 "drlat069_r_94002" FBIS-LAT-94-069 Daily Report 8 Apr 1994 Peru Perez de Cuellar Terms Candidacy `Premature' Perez de Cuellar Terms Candidacy `Premature' PY0804214594 Lima Radio Programas del Peru Network in Spanish 1800 GMT 8 Apr 94 PY0804214594 Lima Radio Programas del Peru Network Spanish BFN [Text] Former UN Secretary General Javier Perez de Cuellar said it would be premature to talk about a presidential candidacy. He said that any candidate would demand that the elections be clean and have guarantees. [Begin Perez de Cuellar recording] I did say that any candidate who runs for the presidency, or for a seat in the unicameral Congress we now have, would demand that the elections be clean, that the elections have guarantees. But having said that does not mean I have accepted becoming a presidential candidate. I believe that would still be a little premature. We do not know if the current president will run for reelection; that is not known, either. But naturally I cannot fail to say that I feel very honored [words indistinct] who believe I could represent a democratic solution in the upcoming general elections. [end recording] Let us continue to listen to Javier Perez de Cuellar, in an exclusive interview with Radio Programas del Peru from Paris. Perez de Cuellar said that if he becomes a candidate, he would not be a candidate in opposition to President Alberto Fujimori, but rather to his government policy. [Begin recording, in progress]...not in opposition to President Fujimori, but to a policy, and not necessarily against an individual. We are not dealing with an individual. The Peruvian problem is not the problem of an individual, it is the problem of government, a problem of policy. When I gave you an answer, what I meant was that I don't want to be a candidate in opposition to the president, if he runs for reelection, but to various aspects of his policies. And this is how it should be--not an opposition to an individual but to his policy, to his government actions. Therefore, if I were a candidate, I would not be a candidate in opposition to the president, but in opposition to the policies of the current government. [end recording]
