FBIS3-35906 "drsov021_t_94005" FBIS-SOV-94-021 Document Type:Daily Report 1 Feb 1994 BALTIC STATES Estonia Zhirinovskiy Aide on `Ancient Russian Territory' LD0102132794 Tallinn Radio Tallinn Network in Estonian 1100 GMT 1 Feb 94 LD0102132794 Tallinn Radio Tallinn Network Language: Estonian Article Type:BFN [Text] Petr Rozhok, Zhirinovskiy's [Russian Liberal Democratic Party leader] representative in Estonia, has appealed to retired Estonian servicemen to form defense units. Rozhok said that should it occur to some Estonian official to deport a Russian officer, the latter should look after himself first and foremost. If -- as he puts it -- some police control official or devil knows what kind of a representative should turn up, the officer will simply have to kick them out of his flat by force. In Rozhok's opinion, Estonia continues to be an ancient Russian territory. According to him, the Uusikaupunki peace treaty [of 1721] and the 1975 Helsinki treaty have not been repealed by anyone. For this reason the retired Russian servicemen and reservists living in Estonia must know that they are living on ancient Russian territory. Rozhok also thinks that all Russians living in Estonia should apply for Russian citizenship so as to feel the protection and support of the great Russia. According to Rozhok, he has been persuading Zhirinovskiy not to insert phrases like: Let us bring our tanks but threaten Estonia only with economic sanctions. Commenting in the SILLAMAE GAZETTE on the claim that it is first and foremost Russian industrial workers who would be hit by economic sanctions, Rozhok says that the Russians have nothing else to lose anyway. Speaking about Russian-speakers' organizations in Estonia, Rozhok rates highly the activity of the Russian Citizens' Union in Narva and its leader Yuriy Mishin, while calling the [Russian-speakers] Representative Assembly [in Estonia], an academy engaged in destroying Russian movements, parties, and organizations, under the baton of the Estonian Government.
