FBIS3-29443 "dreas034__a94004" FBIS-EAS-94-034-A Document Type:Daily Report 18 February 1994 ANNEX Japan Tokyo Plans To Reject Kantor's Tariff Proposal OW1802130294 Tokyo NIHON KEIZAI SHIMBUN in Japanese 18 Feb 94 Morning Edition p 5 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY OW1802130294 Tokyo NIHON KEIZAI SHIMBUN Language: Japanese Article Type:BFN [Text] It has been disclosed that on the issue of market access discussed at the Uruguay Round of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), U.S. Trade Representative (USTR) Mickey Kantor sent letters, which were dated 16 February and contained new proposals, to Japan and the European Union (EU). As he explained before, Kantor, in the letter, demands that Japan lower tariffs on forestry products and distilled liquor. The Japanese Government plans to reject the demand, saying: "We already reached an agreement late last year on the tariff issue." Now that a ministerial meeting, scheduled to be held in April to sign an accord, is drawing near, however, the Uruguay Round is facing new difficult issues. In the letters, Kantor proposes that the United States, Japan, and the EU develop a new package. While explaining a plan to scale down [kotai] a proposal, in which the United States pledged to reduce tariffs on such items as electronic machines, Kantor urges Japan to make additional tariff cuts on forestry products and other goods. From the EU, Kantor is demanding further reduction of tariffs on aluminum. The United States is saying that it will lower a part of its tariffs on trucks. However, the letters call for a scale-down in each nation's average tariff reduction rate. It seems that USTR Kantor sent the letters because of pressure from the U.S. Congress. However, both Japan and the EU are opposing the U.S. proposals. They will strongly urge the U.S. Government to abide by the agreement reached late last year. At the same time, Japan and the EU are studying the possibility of asking GATT Secretary General Sutherland to act as a mediator.
