FBIS4-1728 "drchi064_d_94002" FBIS-CHI-94-064 Daily Report 1 Apr 1994 Northeast Asia Beijing Radio Reports Spokesman's Comments on DPRK Issue Beijing Radio Reports Spokesman's Comments on DPRK Issue OW0204012394 Beijing China Radio International in English to Western North America 0400 GMT 1 Apr 94 OW0204012394 Beijing China Radio International English BFN [From the "Current Affairs" program] [Text] The Chinese Foreign Ministry says China favors a moderately worded statement to be worked out by the UN Security Council president to solve the nuclear issue on the Korean Peninsula. Ministry spokesman Wu Jianmin made the statement Thursday in Beijing at his weekly press conference. Li Peichuan was there. [Begin recording] [Li Peichuan] Foreign Ministry spokesman Wu Jianmin said a mild statement should be made in the name of the president of the UN Security Council. He said the statement should be designed to facilitate resumption of dialogue which is the only correct way to settle the nuclear issue. Though Wu Jianmin did not say whether China will veto a tough UN resolution which will impose pressure on DPRK, he said China does not accept such a resolution. He said exerting pressure will only worsen the situation. When asked whether China has common interests towards DPRK, the spokesman said yes. Earlier the Chinese Foreign Ministry said the status of bilateral ties should be judged by how many common interests two countries have. [Wu Jianmin in Mandarin fading into English translation] We have common interests toward both the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and the Republic of Korea because all of us... [Li Peichuan] Wu Jianmin said regional peace and stability are common concern of both China and two Koreas. The spokesman said maintaining peace and stability are preconditions for improving the living standards in all these countries and assists the further development of economic and trade links between them. Commenting on the upcoming visit to China by French Prime Minister Edouard Balladur next week, Wu Jianmin said it is of political significance, it will help improve ties between Beijing and Paris. He said maintaining a good political relationship is a solid foundation for developing economic and trade ties. On another topic, the Foreign Ministry spokesman repeated China's continued support for the peace process in South Africa. Violence has increased recently in some part of the country as the first all-race elections are approaching. Wu Jianmin said China hopes all parties concerned will overcome their differences through negotiations so as to ensure a smooth general election which is scheduled for late April. For China Radio International, I am Li Peichuan. [end recording]
