FBIS4-43346 "drweu115__a94023" FBIS-WEU-94-115-A Daily Report 7 Jun 1994 ANNEX Switzerland New Political Party Provides `Alternative' to SP New Political Party Provides `Alternative' to SP AU0706113594 Zurich NEUE ZUERCHER ZEITUNG in German 7 Jun 94 p 23 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY AU0706113594 Zurich NEUE ZUERCHER ZEITUNG German BFN [Report by "mer": "DSP/PSD of Switzerland Founded"] [Excerpts] Fribourg, 4 June -- The Democratic Social Party [DSP/PSD], which constituted itself as a Swiss political party in Fribourg on 4 June, does not see itself as a rival to the Social Democratic Party [SP], but as an alternative. For years, the party only existed in the form of cantonal organizations. One of its principles says that only a strong economic sector can guarantee social peace and progress. [passage omitted] According to the statutes, the party seeks to create a social system that would permit all sections of the population -- particularly the socially disadvantaged and the economically weak classes -- to "lead a life worthy of human beings." In this context, the basic political statement says that the DSP/PSD addresses all those fellow citizens who not only think in democratic and social terms, but also intend to act in this sense and spirit. The DSP/PSD advocates a democratic and social state ruled by the law and the institutions of such a state, as well as the intellectual, economic, and military defense of the country. The DSP/PSD advocates a market economy marked by social justice, by respect and responsibility for man and the environment. In the implementation of its political goals, it will not be guided by "utopian political ideas," but will pursue realpolitik "through continuous reform." To the surprise of everyone, not one president was elected, but three -- in the form of a copresidium. In the interest of maintaining the symmetry of the three cantonal parties, which are already represented in the government or at least in the cantonal parliament, Jules Grand (Basel city), Stefan Hosang (Graubuenden), and Jean-Bernard Repond (Fribourg) were elected. This organizational structure will be maintained until the next meeting of delegates. This meeting can agree on a change. For the time being, the party's office will be in Basel. [passage omitted]
