FBIS4-23485 "drafr109_c_94004" FBIS-AFR-94-109 Daily Report 6 Jun 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA President Mandela Executes Public Service Act President Mandela Executes Public Service Act MB0606175694 Johannesburg SAPA in English 1737 GMT 6 Jun 94 MB0606175694 Johannesburg SAPA English BFN [Text] Pretoria June 6 SAPA -- President Nelson Mandela has enacted a public service act, paving the way for a new civil service to replace that of the former central, homeland and self-governing territories' governments. Minister of Public Service and Administration Zola Skweyiya said on Monday [6 June] the act would replace the Public Service Employment Acts of all previous government entities. "It makes provision for 32 national departments and organisational components and nine provincial administrations. It will now be possible to rationalise the administrative structures of the former public services into these new structures. It also paves the way for the establishment of uniform terms and conditions of employment for all public servants. This has been a bone of contention in a number of regions. I wish to emphasise that more work needs to be done before the implementation of uniformity in the terms and conditions of employment can be finalised. This process will, however, be expedited," Dr Skweyiya said in a statement. He said the act was an important step in the rationalisation of the public service. "Various government institutions are in the process of urgently finalising their planning with the view to implementing further rationalisation actions. Obviously all relevant role players will be consulted in this process. "I sincerely regard the public service as one of the most important elements of the state. The government cannot develop the country and build the nation without an efficient public service and for this reason the government is committed to establish the best possible public service for South Africa and one which will be accepted by the community at large," Dr Skweyiya said.
