FBIS4-2382 "drchi069_e_94005" FBIS-CHI-94-069 Daily Report 10 Apr 1994 Southeast Asia & Pacific Liu Huaqing Meets Vietnamese Military Chief Liu Huaqing Meets Vietnamese Military Chief OW1004130894 Beijing XINHUA in English 1242 GMT 10 Apr 94 OW1004130894 Beijing XINHUA English BFN [Text] Beijing, April 10 (XINHUA) -- Liu Huaqing, vice-chairman of China's Central Military Commission, said here today that China attaches great importance to developing its good-neighborly ties with Vietnam. The growth of such a relationship will benefit the stability in the whole region, said Liu at a meeting with Dao Dinh Luyen, chief of the General Staff of the Vietnamese People's Army, here this afternoon. Liu said that over the past few years bilateral ties between China and Vietnam have soundly developed. Both countries adhere to engaging in reform and opening to the outside world under socialist conditions, which he said will help facilitate mutual cooperation. He said China and Vietnam both need a peaceful and stable international environment. Developing their good-neighborly relations will be conducive to boosting the economic growth of the two countries and improving their people's living standards. Liu expressed the belief that Dao's visit to China will be of great importance to the promotion of friendship between the two peoples and the two armed forces. He said it is his hope that the two sides will increase their mutual understanding and trust through the frequent exchange of visits. Liu said differences existing between the two sides can be narrowed through peaceful means and consultations. Dao told Liu that this morning he held talks with his Chinese counterpart Zhang Wannian on strengthening the ties between the two armies in a candid, friendly and sincere way. Vietnam is determined to continue its efforts to enhance the traditional friendship between the two countries and the two armies, he said. He wished China greater success in building socialism with Chinese characteristics. General Zhang Wannian attended the meeting. Dao and his party are the guests of Zhang Wannian, chief of General Staff of the People's Liberation Army. Zhang presided over a ceremony to welcome Dao and talked with him this morning. Zhang also hosted a banquet for him this evening.
