FBIS4-48232 "drafr094_c_94008" FBIS-AFR-94-094 Daily Report 13 May 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA Housing Minister Outlines `Ambitious' Plans Housing Minister Outlines `Ambitious' Plans MB1405203694 Johannesburg BUSINESS DAY in English 13 May 94 p 2 MB1405203694 Johannesburg BUSINESS DAY English BFN [Report by Tim Cohen] [Text] New Housing Minister Joe Slovo spelt out preliminary but ambitious plans for his portfolio yesterday, including the establishment of a national housing bank and the implementation of a mortgage indemnity scheme. An upbeat Slovo expressed support for agreements already achieved by the National Housing Forum, and endorsed the concept of the provision of housing as a kick-start for the economy. Slovo said priority had to be given to the poor, who had been ignored largely in the past and had to be brought into the mainstream of policy. He stressed all major players would need to be engaged, especially the private sector, which had a "seminal" role to play. Slovo mooted the idea of a housing summit to gain wide involvement and establish a logic to the provision of housing, which had been somewhat "constipated." The provision of housing could be a major generator of jobs, but for this to happen there had to be a great degree of market certainty to release the "latent energy" in the sector. The idea of a national housing bank had to be realised, although the details needed to be planned with care. Slovo said one of his major tasks would be to develop a good relationship with the provincial housing administrations. The ANC's reconstruction and development programme specified that 1-million "housing units" should be built within five years, which Slovo said was realisable although it might not be possible to build 370,000 houses in the first year. Slovo said he was "over the moon" about his portfolio. "We have been talking liberation, but this will be the beginning of making liberation...There is so much goodwill, I think there is a very good chance we can make a breakthrough."
