FBIS4-40876 "drsov119_v_94003" FBIS-SOV-94-119 Daily Report 20 Jun 1994 Lithuania Opposition Expects International Experts To Be Objective Opposition Expects International Experts To Be Objective WS2106112294 Tallinn BNS in English 1800 GMT 20 Jun 94 WS2106112294 Tallinn BNS English BFN [Text] Vilnius, Jun 20, BNS -- The leader of the Lithuanian parliament's rightist opposition, Vytautas Landsbergis, is quite reserved in his estimations of Prime Minister Adolfas Slezevicius' proposal to set up an international commission of experts to assess the possible economic consequences of savings restoration. At a press conference Monday, Landsbergis said there is doubt whether such a commission would be "objective and impartial." The opposition leader, who also heads the Conservative Party, told reporters that the conservatives became cautious after a meeting in early July with Peter Cornelius, representative of the IMF in Lithuania. The IMF official expressed his negative attitude toward the Conservative Party's initiative to hold a referendum on unlawful privatization and savings restoration, and warned that consequences of an indexation would be ruinous to the Lithuanian financial system. The conservatives, who suggest a hundredfold indexation of people's savings, said Cornelius expressed "strange views" about their initiative and Lithuania's economic policy in general. In a letter sent to the IMF leadership, the Conservative Party asked to explain whether Cornelius expressed his personal attitude or the official position of the fund. In Landsbergis' words, the IMF representative expressed his opinion before he heard both sides. "We were under the impression that Cornelius is not an independent expert, or dependent on the Lithuanian Government," the opposition leader said. In his view, the government uses representatives of international organization "for internal struggle." The Lithuanian parliament is scheduled to discuss the premier's initiative Tuesday. Parliament Chairman Ceslovas Jursenas said the proposal is "attractive" because "people must understand what is suggested for the referendum." Landsbergis said he hopes that an international commission, if it is set up, will be able to analyze the general situation in Lithuania more carefully, and the opposition will have an opportunity "to explain some things about the government's policy."
