FBIS3-27543 "drchi038_f_94003" FBIS-CHI-94-038 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Feb 1994 Near East & South Asia Further on Qian Qichen's South Asian Trip Meets Bangladesh Foreign Minister OW2502101794 Beijing XINHUA in English 0950 GMT 25 Feb 94 OW2502101794 Beijing XINHUA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Dhaka, February 25 (XINHUA) -- Chinese Vice Premier and Foreign Minister Qian Qichen exchanged views today with Bangladesh Foreign Minister Mostafizur Rahman on bilateral relations as well as regional and international affairs at official talks held here. During the talks which were proceeded at a sincere and friendly atmosphere, Rahman said that Bangladesh attached great importance to the development of friendly cooperations between China and Bangladesh. Describing the visit as "an important landmark in the development of bilateral relations between the two countries," Rahman said Qian's visit will further promote friendship and cooperations of mutual benefit in all fields between the two countries. He also highly valued the rapid development of China's economy in recent years, saying that Bangladesh expects Chinese companies and enterprises to invest in Bangladesh. In his speech, Qian said that China and Bangladesh are friendly neighbors which enjoy a profound traditional friendship. Under the personal care of the leaders of the two countries, the two sides are carrying out fruitful cooperation in the economic, trade, scientific and technological fields and have supported each other and cooperated closely in international affairs, Qian said, adding that to develop friendly relations and cooperation with Bangladesh is "a firm policy of the Chinese Government." "I am convinced that cooperation between us in all fields will further develop in depth and breadth with the concerted efforts of our two governments and people," the Chinese foreign minister said. Qian also highly appraised Bangladesh's success in its economic development in the recent years and expressed the hope that trade relations between China and Bangladesh will be further strengthened. "The Chinese Government will encourage Chinese companies and enterprises to invest in Bangladesh," Qian said. The Chinese foreign minister also appraised Bangladesh for its efforts to promote the development of the South Asian Alliance for Regional Cooperation.
