FBIS4-54974 "dreeu089_y_94004" FBIS-EEU-94-089 Daily Report 8 May 1994 YUGOSLAVIA Federal Sainovic Views Economic Recovery, Sanctions Sainovic Views Economic Recovery, Sanctions LD0805165294 Belgrade TANJUG in English 1639 GMT 8 May 94 LD0805165294 Belgrade TANJUG English BFN [Text] Belgrade, May 8 (TANJUG) -- Yugoslav Deputy Prime Minister Nikola Sainovic said on Sunday the success of the country's economic recovery programme was a heavy blow to international sanctions against it. The sanctions were originally introduced to cause an economic collapse in Yugoslavia, but the programme has prevented this and in this way made senseless the very purpose of the sanctions, Sainovic told the local radio in Kragujevac. In late May of 1992, the U.N. Security Council introduced tough sanctions against Yugoslavia (Serbia/Montenegro) for its alleged involvement in civil war in neighbouring Bosnia-Herzegovina. Those who imposed the blockade now see that the Yugoslav economy is recovering and that the sanctions are also affecting the countries neighbouring on Yugoslavia which are allegedly supported by the big powers, said Sainovic. "The positive results of the programme have become evident in the first 100 days of its implementation, primarily as concerns the curbing of hyperinflation and revival of production." The basic goal now is to sustain production growth and ensure revival of the overall economic activity, explained Sainovic. The economic recovery programme, which was launched on January 24, slashed inflation to zero. Before the programme was introduced, the monthly inflation in Yugoslavia soared to the unbelievable 310 million percent. One of the effects of the sanctions was a sharp drop in industrial production which was reversed after the programme was introduced. In February, industrial output rose by 12.4 percent on the January figure and in March by 21.3 percent. The architect of the Yugoslav economic recovery programme is Dr. Dragoslav Avramovic, 77, who for decades worked with the World Bank and other U.N. specialized agencies. Dr. Avramovic is currently governor of the National Bank of Yugoslavia.
