FBIS3-21731 "jptdd010__l94036" JPRS-TDD-94-010L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Narcotics 7 March 1994 LATIN AMERICA MEXICO Valades Says New U.S. Antidrug Strategy Resembles Mexico's 94WB0027E Mexico City EXCELSIOR in Spanish 16 Feb 94 pp 5-A, 37-A 94WB0027E Mexico City EXCELSIOR Language: Spanish Article Type:CSO [Article by Ignacio Gutierrez A.] [Excerpts] President Bill Clinton's announcement of a new strategy to combat drugs in the United States closely resembles the recommendations that Mexico has always been making. It involves not only combating drug production at its origin, but also giving priority attention to preventive measures and the drug traffic's sources of financing, as well as "money laundering." This claim was made yesterday by the attorney general of the republic, Diego Valades. [passage omitted] He explained that this did not mean that the United States will have a greater role in combating drugs within the national territory, declaring categorically that this battle is incumbent on Mexicans alone. Therefore, the role of DEA [Drug Enforcement Administration] agents will continue along the same line, without any change at present, and with no increase in the numbers of personnel. He remarked that Mexico is not currently receiving financial aid to combat the drug traffic, stressing: "Our country is fighting drugs with its own resources and its own decisions." Nevertheless, he admitted that support of a technical and informational type is, in fact, being received. Diego Valades announced that the PGR [Office of the Attorney General of the Republic] will assign these activities to an additional 800 Federal Judicial Police agents, who will come on duty within a maximum of five months. They will be devoted exclusively to the narcotics area. As for the flow of drugs to Mexico and the United States, the nation's attorney general reported that the figures have remained stable, noting that one of the major concerns here is heroin consumption. He added that, last month, one of the largest shipments of that narcotic was seized, exceeding all those for the past 15 years, totaling 120 kg. To highlight the number, he noted that the confiscation used as the theme of the film "Contact in France" amounted to 40 kg. He then observed that, with the introduction of the constitutional amendments to the Penal Code and the Code of Penal Procedures, which have now established the legal category of organized crime, Mexico can have access to a standard instrument of a legal nature for more effectively combating organized crime. He added that the most significant form of this crime, because of its damaging effects, is represented by the drug traffic.
