FBIS3-53235 "drnes008_j_94009" FBIS-NES-94-008 Document Type:Daily Report 12 Jan 1994 ARABIAN PENINSULA Yemen Arms Rumors Attempt To `Poison' Dialogue Effort PM1101164694 London AL-SHARQ AL-AWSAT in Arabic 11 Jan 94 pp1, 4 PM1101164694 London AL-SHARQ AL-AWSAT Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Reports by 'Abdallah Hammudah and Hammud Munsir in Sanaa and Lutfi Shatarah in Aden: "Yemen: Accusations of Arms Imports and Controversy Over Dialogue"] [Excerpts] The Yemeni General People's Congress [GPC] and the Yemeni Socialist Party [YSP] have exchanged accusations about military deals under which arms and ammunition have been delivered to each. GPC sources said yesterday that a military transport plane arrived in Aden the night before last and again last night and was parked in the military section of the airport where it unloaded its cargo, and that a cargo ship was anchored at some distance from the coast and its cargo was being transported to the shore by small cargo boats. In reply, a YSP spokesman said that these "rumors are part of a campaign to poison the dialogue atmosphere and distort the YSP's efforts to end the country's crisis." He added that the aim "is to conceal the military movements of the other party which has intensified its arms import operations through Djibouti to al-Mukha port." This comes as the "National Dialogue Committee for resolving the Yemeni crisis" is preparing to announce the results achieved today. Observers fear that the committee may have reached a dead end after weeks of discussions in Sanaa and Aden despite the fact that a subcommittee has redrafted the final paper on the basis for building the state, combining the proposals approved by the members of the tripartite ruling coalition (the GPC, the YSP, and the Yemeni Reform Grouping [YRG]), in addition to the opposition's National Bloc. [passage omitted] Dialogue Committee sources have expressed pessimism about the possibility of finding solutions acceptable to all parties because of the sensitive nature of the YSP's demands. They added that if no such solutions are achieved then the committee would divulge to the Yemeni people all the phases it passed through, reveal the secret issues, and expose the party which caused the failure of the dialogue. Other sources, however, are optimistic. They say that matters were proceeding "contrary to people's expectations." They emphasized that if the proposals -- which are opposed by the GPC and the YRG -- are approved then the leaders of the parties would be called to an urgent meeting to sign the agreement documents which would include formation of a government of national accord to implement what was agreed and to prepare for new elections within a period not exceeding two years. [passage omitted]
