FBIS3-21095 "jpest009__l94014" JPRS-EST-94-009-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Europe/International Economic Competitiveness 24 March 1994 WEST EUROPE CORPORATE ALLIANCES German, French Telecom Corporations Form Joint Venture BR0103124894 Berlin NTZ in German No 1, Jan 94 pp 47-48 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY BR0103124894 Berlin NTZ Language: German Article Type:BFN [Text] The international value-added services market is growing around a new supplier of services. After the Worldsource consortium led by AT&T, the Unisource alliance formed by the Netherlands, Swiss, and Swedish telecom organizations, and the pact between BT [British Telecom] (UK) and MCI (United States), DBP [Deutsche Bundespost] Telekom and France Telecom announced another alliance in Brussels last month. Subject to the approval of the European Union -- expected this spring -- a joint venture with ECU1 billion working capital and headquarters in Brussels will be formed employing 4,000 people. The corporation will be owned on an equal- shares basis and will incorporate only those divisions of the parent companies that are already working under competitive conditions. It will thus comprise a value-added data service network (without voice transmission) for major clients' commercial, cross-border communications; a European backbone network will become the core of the VANS [value-added network service] network. DBP Telekom and France Telecom estimate that they already have a 10-percent share of their target market, which they intend to build up rapidly on an international basis. For this they will need a strong overseas partner, and AT&T's assent is hoped for. This would create a consortium of the three largest telecom operating organizations in the world. The prospect is already arousing skeptical comment in the United Kingdom, where it is feared that DBP Telekom and France Telecom, which are still state-owned, will distort competition in this, to date, largely market-led sector. There is also a "vision," says DBP Telekom chief Helmut Ricke, of a subsequent interlinking of capital between DBP Telekom and France Telecom. The alliance may at least be seen as a further step forward in the long-standing collaboration between the two corporations, which looks set to continue.
