FBIS4-65512 "drweu097__a94033" FBIS-WEU-94-097-A Daily Report 13 May 1994 ANNEX Italy & Vatican City Berlusconi Meets U.S. Envoy, Receives Clinton Message Berlusconi Meets U.S. Envoy, Receives Clinton Message BR1605130794 Rome ANSAMAIL Database in English 2006 GMT 13 May 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY BR1605130794 Rome ANSAMAIL Database English BFN [Unattributed article: "Clinton Sends Berlusconi Best Wishes"] [Text] (ANSA) Rome, May 13 -- United States President Bill Clinton has sent a letter of congratulations and best wishes to Italy's new Premier Silvio Berlusconi on the formation of the new government. The letter was delivered to Berlusconi Friday evening [13 May] by the American ambassador to Rome, Reginald Bartholomew, and in it Clinton wished Italy every success in the renewal process underway in the country. The U.S. President said he was looking forward to working in close contact with the Italian head of government to further strengthen the strong bilateral partnership that exists between the two countries. Clinton recalled that he would be meeting with Berlusconi in Rome next month and again in Naples in July during the Group of Seven summit there. These encounters will offer excellent opportunities to develop that cooperation aimed at enlarging the democratic community, at spurring world economic growth and at promoting collective security, the message added. During his meeting with Bartholomew, Berlusconi confirmed the intention of his government to work to strengthen civic society and political democracy in Italy. He urged that his government be judged on its actions and concrete results. The premier also noted that the important international appointments in the offing will afford an opportunity for him and Clinton to take a deeper look at the many topics of mutual interest to them, also with a view to strengthening the firm partnership that already exists between Italy and the United States. Foreign Minister Antonio Martino, who was present at the Bartholomew-Berlusconi encounter, will be going to Washington the last week in May to prepare for Clinton's Rome visit.
