FBIS3-10391 "drlat044_j_94004" FBIS-LAT-94-044 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Mar 1994 Panama Attorney General: DEA Violates Sovereignty PA0603024694 Panama City EL SIGLO in Spanish 5 Mar 94 p 8 PA0603024694 Panama City EL SIGLO Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Article by Yuriela Sagel] [Text] Acting Attorney General Bolivar Davalos recognized that the job done by U.S. federal narcotics agents in covert operations is an act against the country's sovereignty. Davalos indicated that the procedures followed by the covert agents in Panama are not legal. Because of this we have to be very careful because it is a direct act against our sovereignty. The Mutual Legal Assistance Treaty has not yet been approved by the U.S. Senate, and, therefore, the operations conducted by the DEA agents are illegal, the acting Attorney General said. According to Davalos, at no time since he has been in charge of the Attorney General's Office have U.S. narcotics officials requested authorization to operate in the country. Covert U.S. federal agents, in an operation set up a year and a half ago, intercepted more than $10 million in drug trafficking money in which lawyers, accountants, and Panamanian and Colombian businessmen are allegedly involved. Among those accused are Frank L. Greene, the vice president of the firm Merrill Lynch International in Panama; Steven L. Mills, a top official of the same firm; and Panamanians Ricardo Leyton, a lawyer; Charles Richard McFaden, an accountant; and businessman Luis Sanchez. Also involved are Jorge Rogelio Krupnik, Gilberto Straub and his son, Jorge Rivera, and Patrick Van Duel, who according to the list is an official at the Colabanco Bank. The bank, however, has stated that Van Duel no longer works for them. The acting attorney general pointed out that any procedure or probe conducted by the Panamanian Government on those involved in the drug trafficking network discovered by the federal agents has to be conducted through the Foreign Ministry. Likewise, any protest by the Panamanian Government toward the United States for the covert work performed by the DEA agents has to be filed by the Foreign Ministry, from whom a statement in this regard is expected. Meanwhile, Hernan Rubio, president of the Bar Association, said the entire drug trafficking network discovered by the United States is part of a campaign to discredit the country.
