FBIS3-25242 "drafr030_c_94003" FBIS-AFR-94-030 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Feb 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA Editorial Reviews Reasons for Talks Deterioration MB1302083094 Durban ILANGA in Zulu 10-12 Feb 94 p 4 MB1302083094 Durban ILANGA Language: Zulu Article Type:BFN [Unattributed editorial] [Text] The saga concerning the future of kwaZulu thickens day by day. Last Sunday, the king met with President F.W. de Klerk where it is reported the monarch said he wanted the boundaries of Zulu territory restored to what they were before the Zulus were conquered, so that the Zulu nation can determine its own future. This coming Monday the monarch will again meet with the state president. This shows things are getting hot. We were not aware that things would come to this in this country, because we had hoped that negotiations would take the path of genuine compromise leading to the satisfaction of all concerned. We did not foresee that things would come to a stage where the Zulu nation would demand what rightfully belonged to it. We did not know that things would deteriorate to a stage where the very unity of South Africa would be put in jeopardy as we presently see it. The situation, however, has been spoiling for a long time. When a proposal that a separate delegation from the king be part of Codesa [Convention for a Democratic South Africa] was rejected, that was the start of the problem. When a proposal that a delegation of the kwaZulu government be part of Codesa was also rejected, that too further soured the situation. When the ANC [African National Congress] and its allies, COSATU [Congress of South African Trade Unions] and the SACP [South African Communist Party], resolved to begin a campaign to destroy kwaZulu, that further aggravated the situation. When, at the Kempton Park talks, government and ANC negotiators conspired to make side deals, that also soured things. When kwaZulu government proposals for a new dispensation that allowed for regional autonomy was rejected, that was part of the disintegration. When admonitions by other leaders of the same mind as the prime minister of kwaZulu -- that the way the negotiations were being conducted was wrong -- were cast aside as of no consequence, that was again part of the disintegration. When the IFP's [Inkatha Freedom Party] protests that too much power was being vested in the central government was ignored, that was part of the deterioration of the situation. Now it appears that this country is facing a very uncertain future. The situation is truly precarious!
