FBIS3-37043 "drsov030_b_94014" FBIS-SOV-94-030 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Feb 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political Issues Yavlinskiy: Democracy Not Increased Under Yeltsin LD1102231494 Moscow INTERFAX in English 2011 GMT 11 Feb 94 LD1102231494 Moscow INTERFAX Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Leader of the Yavlinskiy-Boldyrev-Lukin faction in the State Duma, Grigory Yavlinskiy, said that Russia had not become more democratic since 1991 when Yeltsin came to power in comparison with the situation under Mikhail Gorbachev. "I see no changes in the sphere of dialogue with people, listening to them, decrease in the number of officials, struggle with corruption," Yavlinskiy said in the Moscow House of Scientists on Friday evening. "Gorbachev carried out political reforms ignoring the economic ones. Yeltsin has acted vice versa since 1991," Yavlinskiy pointed out. In his opinion, the way to abolishment of the USSR chosen in 1991 could resist no critic from the point of view of logic, market economy and democracy. "We have to pay for this, especially in the sphere of the economy," he said. Yavlinskiy also believes that the executive power was to blame for the October events in Moscow to a bigger extent. All this must be taken into consideration when assessing Yeltsin, Yavlinskiy emphasized. On the economic situation, he pointed out that he would focus on fighting inflation if he were given an opportunity to form the government. "It is very important to keep inflation this autumn from reaching 40-50%," Yavlinskiy believes. However, Yavlinskiy repeated that he had been critical of Gaydar's policy, saying that "constant endless struggle with inflation was unreasonable." "Inflation is only a symptom of the affected economy. De-monopolization of the economy, establishment of a strong and large private sector and real competitiveness are needed," he pointed out. Yavlinskiy said that we could hope for Russian money returning to Russia from abroad. Its amount is put from $25 Bn to $50 Bn, according to different estimates. "We need a system under which it will be beneficial for the owners to bring money back to Russia," Yavlinskiy emphasized.
