FBIS4-34875 "drlat123_b_94010" FBIS-LAT-94-123 Daily Report 24 Jun 1994 Dominican Republic St. Lucia Senator Optimistic Following World Bank Talks Senator Optimistic Following World Bank Talks FL2506113994 Castries HTS Caribvision Television in English 2215 GMT 24 Jun 94 FL2506113994 Castries HTS Caribvision Television English BFN [Text] St. Lucia has been given a clean bill of health from major international organizations, such as the International Monetary Fund. This was revealed last evening by one of the island's representatives at the just-concluded World Bank meeting in Washington. Speaking on the discussion program "One," broadcast on Helen Television System, government Senator (Charmaine Gardner) painted a bright picture of St. Lucia: [Begin (Gardner) recording] I happen to have been in Washington last week, at the World Bank meetings, and we were told there by both the World Bank, by the International Monetary Fund, and by many other funding agencies who happen to have been at that meeting that St. Lucia was one of the countries in the eastern Caribbean, in fact, from Guyana all the way north to Jamaica, more than the eastern Caribbean, in the entire Caribbean region -- St. Lucia was one of the countries who were doing very well. St. Lucia had one of the best country reports given by both the IMF and World Bank and many of the other funding agencies. We were told that, in terms of our management, our economic management, management of our fiscal policy, our annual growth rate was between 4 and 5 percent; that the norm for countries like the United States is something like 4.5 percent; that our country's debt burden, in terms of its ratio to repayment, was also good; and that we need to maintain our annual growth rate; and that one of the ways in which we had arrived at the annual growth rate of about just over 4 percent and one of the ways in which we need to maintain that annual growth rate was that our economy had, by and large, been private-sector driven and that some of the greatest levels of import into the economy were by not only the traditional private sector but by the tourism industry and, in some sectors, by the agricultural industry, where there were areas of privatization and agroindustry. [end recording]
