FBIS4-5523 "dreas070_c_94026" FBIS-EAS-94-070 Daily Report 9 Apr 1994 North Korea Daily Notes Kim Chong-il's Work on Health Care Daily Notes Kim Chong-il's Work on Health Care SK0904110594 Pyongyang KCNA in English 1031 GMT 9 Apr 94 SK0904110594 Pyongyang KCNA English BFN ["Guideline for Development of Chuche-Based Health Service" -- KCNA headline] [Text] Pyongyang, April 9 (KCNA) -- NODONG SINMUN today dedicates an article to the 20th anniversary of the publication of the dear leader Comrade Kim Chong-il's famous work "On Further Developing Health Care for the People" (April 9, 1974). The author of the article says: The work is a highly important guideline which opened a bright road of developing health service to a new, higher stage as required by the modelling of the whole society on the chuche idea. The work says socialist medicine is preventive medicine, the basic mission of which is to prevent diseases and protect and promote the health of the people. On the basis of a scientific exposition of the essence, character and basic mission of socialist medicine, the work calls for correctly implementing the party's policy of preventive medicine through energetic hygiene propaganda, hygiene culture, prevention of pollution and anti-epidemic work. The work gives answers to all questions arising in the development of health care, including the enhancement of the standard of medical (?assistance), development of chuche-based medical science and technique and improvement of the quality of medical education. The work has served as a powerful weapon in exalting the health care system of Korean-style socialism centred on the masses because it gives answers to theoretical and practical questions in the improvement of socialist health service and helps further develop health service as required by our revolution and the reality of health care. A phenomenal progress has been made in health service and its material and technical foundation has been consolidated through the efforts to implement the tasks set out in the work over the last 20 years. Today the number of doctors in Korea is 29.7 per 10,000 people and that of hospital beds is 136. This is the highest level in the world. 18.4 times of medical service is given to each head of the population in a year. Life expectancy at birth is 74.5 years.
