FBIS4-31044 "dreeu107_i_94007" FBIS-EEU-94-107 Daily Report 3 Jun 1994 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA Spokesman: Serbs Begin Withdrawal From Gorazde Spokesman: Serbs Begin Withdrawal From Gorazde LD0306121194 Belgrade TANJUG in English 1132 GMT 3 Jun 94 LD0306121194 Belgrade TANJUG English BFN ["Pool" item] [Text] Geneva, June 3 (TANJUG) -- The spokesman of the special U.N. envoy Yasushi Akashi, Micheal Williams, said Friday [3 June], quoting a telephone conversation with Gorazde, that the withdrawal of the Serb forces from the three kilometer exclusion zone around Gorazde, eastern Bosnia-Herzegovina, had started but that it was still not satisfactory. Williams told a press conference that cease-fire talks would not go ahead until the last element of the Serb militia, army and the last armed civilian of Serb nationality leaves the three-kilometer exclusion zone around Gorazde. He also said that the latest situation in the region was presently being discussed by UNPROFOR commanders for former Yugoslavia General Bertrand de Lapresle and for Bosnia-Herzegovina General Michael Rose with the officials of the Bosnian Serb Republic President Radovan Karadzic and bosnian Army Commander Ratko Mladic. Williams told the press that two formations of Canadian blue helmets were dispatched from Sarajevo to Gorazde Friday morning as reinforcements to ensure that the demands for the Serbs withdrawal from the three-kilometer diameter are being complied with. According to Williams, the premier of the Muslim-Croat federation and head of the Muslim delegation Haris Silajdzic was currently in Paris. He did not specify if he was there for consultations. The vice-president of the Muslim-Croat federation Ejup Ganic, and the delegation accompanying him, is on his way to Zagreb and is due to reach Geneva Friday evening. The Muslim delegation conditions its participation in the cease-fire talks with the withdrawal of the Serb forces from around Gorazde. If the Serbs withdraw Akashi could reschedule the cease-fire talks for Friday evening or Saturday morning, Williams said. If the cease-fire talks start on Saturday, the meeting of the contact group on the territorial division of Bosnia-Herzegovina between the warring Muslims, Serbs and Croats, scheduled for Saturday, will be postponed by 24 hours. The meeting of the contact group with the Bosnian warring sides was initially scheduled for June 6 and 7 in Talloires, France, but the French Foreign Ministry Thursday postponed the meeting to June 4 and 5 in the French Embassy in Geneva. It could now be further postponed by another 24 hours.
