FBIS3-10784 "drlat049_i_94002" FBIS-LAT-94-049 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Mar 1994 Nicaragua Human Rights Bodies Concerned About U.S. Deportations PA1303003694 Managua BARRICADA in Spanish 12 Mar 94 p 2 PA1303003694 Managua BARRICADA Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Report by Freddy Potoy] [Text] National human rights organizations have reiterated their concern about the continuous deportations of Nicaraguans from the United States, and they warn "if this continues, it will become a critical problem for Nicaraguan families that receive remittances in dollars." Doctor Bayardo Izaba Solis, of the Nicaraguan Human Rights Center (Cenidh), has said "this is the prelude to a process that might result in large-scale deportations, and this would negatively affect Nicaraguan families." He has added the United States has granted asylum to the Nicaraguans who so requested during the previous decade, so it can do likewise now and help them again, and this attitude should not only be the result of a given situation and for political purposes. The human rights violations expert has said many people--he did not specify how many--have requested letters or affidavits that state they have been subject to political persecution in Nicaragua, and they must remain in the United States in the interim. Izaba has said U.S. immigration authorities must grant them some type of special immigrant status, and this will allow the Nicaraguan economy to recover slowly and be able to receive all the people deported from the United States. Doctor Violeta de Sandino, assistant director of the Nicaraguan Human Rights Association (ANPDH), has told BARRICADA "we have spoken in Washington and said conditions are not favorable for these Nicaraguans to return to their country, and their cases should be reviewed." "We believe a large-scale deportation would worsen the economic situation of the country and the families that receive dollar remittances," Violeta has said. Sandino has said the ANPDH endorses an extension of the Nicaraguans' permanence in the United States, adding the political asylum demands submitted to the U.S. Government should be expedited.
