FBIS4-23290 "drafr106_c_94014" FBIS-AFR-94-106 Daily Report 2 Jun 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA South African Press Review for 2 Jun South African Press Review for 2 Jun MB0206142394 MB0206142394 BFN [Editorial Report] THE STAR Back in Commonwealth -- "It is one of history's little ironies that those most vocal in bewailing South Africa's departure from the Commonwealth in 1961 are now most lukewarm about our readmission," notes an editorial in Johannesburg THE STAR in English on 2 June on page 16. "`Club' membership no longer brings unquestioned economic benefits in terms of preferential tariffs and increased trade. But is does offer assistance in education and literacy, technical training, health programmes, scientific conferences and other areas where years of enforced isolation from the world have left us lagging well behind other countries of comparable size and influence." "As long as the costs of membership do not substantially outweigh the benefits, South Africa will be better off as a member of the Commonwealth than as an `old boy' looking on from the sidelines." BUSINESS DAY Looming Bank Legislation -- "Apprehension over looming legislation to compel banks to detail publicly information on lending by race and by sex is understandable," states an editorial in the 2 June BUSINESS DAY in English. "Apart from the obvious difficulties of compiling the information" there would "also be the bureaucratic cost of complying with yet another layer of regulation." Against the bank's "understandable fear" of being "legally or morally coerced into making riskier loans," is the counter of of using "openness" as a "potent marketing tool" to "differentiate banks from each other and help in their efforts to attract and keep business." "The banks have to accept that they are operating in a new environment. By the same token, the ANC's advisers must be realistic and not seek to introduce commercially unsound change." New World -- "South Africa is tumbling with gusto into every possible international forum that once rejected us: the Commonwealth, the Organisation of African Unity, the Non-Aligned Movement, the International Labour Organisation, and of course, we will soon be back in the Un General Assembly." "It is not clear that the Non-Aligned Movement has any further role in what has been for years a unipolar world" and Commonwealth membership "will not deliver much of measurable significance," the second editorial in the 2 June BUSINESS DAY notes. "More important are our international trade relations, and they are helped by our new membership of international forums." "After the `welcome back' fanfare, government and the private sector will have to work at enhancing the relationships that count." SOWETAN Back in Commonwealth -- "Getting back into the Commonwealth is important but is mainly a sentimental and psychological boost for South Africa, notes an editorial in Johannesburg SOWETAN in English on 2 June on page 8. The Commonwealth nations are mainly poor and there is not much to gain economically." Going from "pariah state" exclusion affected not only "intellectual, cultural and economic stimulation, but our confidence." And being back in the Commonwealth "also means we will compete again in the Commonwealth games." THE CITIZEN Return to International Bodies -- "Resuming our Commonwealth membership is another major step in the normalisation of our relations with the outside world," states an editorial in Johannesburg THE CITIZEN in English on 1 June on page 6. South Africa also became a member of the Non-Aligned Movement, the Orgainzation of African Unity and will take its seat in the United Nations. "When that happens, we will be back in all international bodies from which we were excluded by apartheid, and we will be able to hold our heads high once more in the community of nations."
