FBIS4-42877 "drweu111_q_94011" FBIS-WEU-94-111 Daily Report 1 Jun 1994 TURKEY Commentary on Political Value of Nuclear Weapons Commentary on Political Value of Nuclear Weapons TA0806142594 Istanbul TURKIYE in Turkish 1 Jun 94 pp 1, 12 TA0806142594 Istanbul TURKIYE Turkish BFN [Commentary by Omer Ozturkmen: "Hypotheses, Projections"] [Text] What would happen if Turkey had nuclear weapons? If I asked my friend at the Cankaya Mansion or Motherland Party leader Mesut Yilmaz this question, they would surely answer that they do not comment on hypothetical situations. It is indeed necessary to think of hypothetical situations, however, in order to foresee the future. For futurists, every hypothesis is an alternative. Hypotheses are projections into the future, in a way. Refusing to comment on hypothetical situations is avoiding the issue. If Turkey had nuclear weapons, the United States and Europe would not act like spoiled children in their relations with us. The United States would not even dream of slashing its aid to us under the pretext of human right violations. European countries would beg us to join the European Union. Customs restrictions would be lifted immediately and there would be no obstacles to the free circulation of Turkish workers in Europe. While slashing its aid to us, the United States does not dare impose sanctions on Red China, where human rights are violated most. Why? Because Red China has nuclear weapons. When the seven rich countries, including the four European countries, extended $80 billion in aid to Russia, did they ask what the situation was in connection with human rights? Today, China and Russia are the two places where human rights are violated most. Remember a few months ago, the Russian parliament was raided and its members arrested. While extending aid to Russia, did the United States or the Europeans question it about human rights? No, because Russia has nuclear weapons. Even Vietnam has more prestige than we do today, because it has nuclear weapons. Could we not build nuclear weapons? The experts must answer this question.
