FBIS4-14575 "drsov063_a_94009" FBIS-SOV-94-063 Daily Report 1 Apr 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Security Council's Lobov Ends Meetings With U.S. Officials Security Council's Lobov Ends Meetings With U.S. Officials LD0104064194 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 0632 GMT 1 Apr 94 LD0104064194 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Igor Borisenko] [Text] Washington April 1 TASS -- Secretary of the Russian Security Council, Oleg Lobov, ended a series of meetings with high-ranking officials of the U.S. Administration. On Thursday [1 April], Lobov met with the presidential aide for economic issues, Bowmen Catter, and political adviser of the U.S. President for health care, Richard Cronik. Earlier, Lobov thoroughly familiarized himself with the structure and functions of the U.S. national security council. In particular, Lobov extended an invitation to the presidential aide for national security, Anthony Lake, to pay a visit to Moscow. The invitation was accepted with gratitude. During Lobov's talks with top-ranking officials of the U.S. Administration, the sides discussed, in particular, the U.S. stance on the development of relations with Russia. The sides pointed out the importance of deepening interaction and partnership between the two countries. Considerable attention was paid to economic problems which were thoroughly discussed at a meeting between the Russian delegation and representatives of U.S. business circles. After the talks in Washington were completed, the Russian delegation went to Honolulu at the invitation of the governor of the state of Hawaii. During a series of meetings with local businessmen the sides are expected to discuss possibilities for establishing mutually advantageous ties between American companies and Russian organisations in the Far East and problems of stepping up cooperation in the Asian-Pacific region. This subject is expected to be brought up at a meeting with members of the council for international affairs in Honolulu.
