FBIS3-16363 "drsov051_b_94019" FBIS-SOV-94-051 Document Type:Daily Report 15 Mar 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Economic Issues President's, Premier's Stance on Late Wages Differ PM1503171794 Moscow ROSSIYSKIYE VESTI in Russian 15 Mar 94 p 1 PM1503171794 Moscow ROSSIYSKIYE VESTI Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Igor Petrov report: "If You're Not Paid, Sue. President Defends Citizens' Labor Rights"] [Text] Boris Yeltsin signed an edict 10 March which, in the opinion of many observers, could fundamentally change the situation regarding now-familiar wage payment delays. The edict "On Responsibility for Violations of Citizens' Labor Rights" instructs the Russian Federation Prosecutor's Office to "carry out careful checks into every instance of the violation of workers' legitimate rights" and to institute proceedings against those responsible for holding up payments. The courts have been instructed to pay particular attention, when hearing cases of the violation of labor legislation, to the need to eradicate such violations, including in respect of delayed pay. The government has been instructed to submit proposals to the State Duma within one month on amendments and additions to existing criminal and administrative legislation, "envisaging the strengthening and clarification of responsibility for the violation of labor legislation and collective contracts and agreements." I do not think there is any need to explain what prompted the appearance of the president's edict, and the effect on society's social and political health of the nonpayment of two-three months' wages is also probably clear to everyone. Of course, delays in paying wages are a natural manifestation of an even more dangerous disease. Nonpayments, like rust, affect the entire economic mechanism. The failure to pay bills has become not only not dangerous but even economically advantageous. Inflation eats away at the creditor's funds, reducing the borrower's debt. The banks rapidly recycle funds received from enterprises, earning fabulous rates of interest. But maybe enterprises really do not have the money to pay each other? Unfortunately, this is by no means always the case. According to Central Bank Chairman Viktor Gerashchenko, enterprises hold 22 trillion rubles [R] in accounts at commercial banks. They also hold foreign exchange equivalent to R26 trillion. Add to this around $18-22 billion held abroad, and the sum is gigantic. And yet the government is getting just one demand from all over -- give us money. To a certain extent this ardor may be dampened by Viktor Chernomyrdin's statement to the extended Council of Ministers. He stressed that it is time for creditors themselves to learn how to recover their debts through the courts without hoping for another round of mutual debt offsetting. "Those who do not have the money to pay their debts should go into bankruptcy and be responsible with their own property for the damage they have done," the premier said.
