FBIS3-43593 "drafr006_a_94011" FBIS-AFR-94-006 Document Type:Daily Report 10 January 1994 CENTRAL AFRICA Zaire MPR Expresses Support for Mobutu 4 Jan Address AB0901181394 Kinshasa Tele-Zaire Television Network in French 1230 GMT 9 Jan 94 AB0901181394 Kinshasa Tele-Zaire Television Network Language: French Article Type:BFN [Text] The Popular Movement of the Revolution [MPR] held a general assembly meeting on 8 January. It was presided over by the first deputy chairman, (Banza Moukala Yissoungou). Professor Kongote Kagna, MPR spokesman, has the details: [Begin Kagna recording] Steering committee and MPR parliamentarians held a meeting on 8 January at party headquarters under the chairmanship of the party's first deputy chairman, Mr. Banza Moukala Yissoungou. They examined the current social, economic, and political situation in light of President Mobutu's 4 January address to the nation. At the end of the meeting, the steering committee issued the following statement: 1. The MPR totally endorses President Mobutu's analysis of the socioeconomic crisis the country is grappling with, which has been exacerbated by monetary reform problems. 2. On a political level, the MPR urges political leaders not to hold the Zairian people, who are facing overwhelming misery, at ransom because of their own personal ambitions. It therefore calls on political leaders to sign without delay the protocol agreement and final report on the Palais du Peuple proceedings, which they negotiated of their own accord. The MPR encourages the head of state to effectively assume his responsibility should the political class disqualify themselves, through their own doing on 12 January, to put an end to the people's misery. 3. The MPR thinks that no democrat should shun free, fair, and democratic elections, which is why it gives unreserved support to the holding of elections at all levels to enable the people to choose their representatives. Finally, the MPR takes this opportunity to wish the Zairian people happiness and prosperity for 1994. Issued: Kinshasa on 8 January. Signed: (Banza Moukala Yissoungi), first deputy chairman in charge of coordinating party activities. [end recording]
