FBIS3-52137 "drnes001_j_94007" FBIS-NES-94-001 Document Type:Daily Report 3 Jan 1994 ARABIAN PENINSULA Yemen Salih, al-Bid Reportedly Agree To Meet in Amman JN3012171593 Abu Dhabi AL-ITTIHAD in Arabic 28 Dec 93 pp 1, 30 JN3012171593 Abu Dhabi AL-ITTIHAD Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Excerpt] Sanaa, Amman, AL-ITTIHAD, and news agencies-- Jordanian mediation has managed to set a date for a meeting between Yemeni President 'Ali 'Abdallah Salih and Vice President 'Ali Salim al-Bid to defuse the political crisis in Yemen. AL-ITTIHAD has learned that the meeting will be held in Amman next week. This will be the first sign of a relaxation since the eruption of the crisis four months ago. Responsible Jordanian sources informed AL-ITTIHAD yesterday evening that Mujahid Abu-Shawarib, envoy of the Yemeni president, who has arrived in Amman on a visit, informed Jordanian officials led by the Jordanian monarch, King Husayn, that Salih and al-Bid have agreed to meet in Amman. The JORDANIAN NEWS AGENCY has reported that King Husayn expressed satisfaction over progress in the efforts to end the crisis after the meeting he had held with the Yemeni envoy. The agency added that the king also expressed his wish to continue to aid fraternal Yemenis to enable them to surmount this transient crisis in order to safeguard the special accomplishments of fraternal Yemen as well as its great pan-Arab role, given that the success of Yemeni unity will nurture the nation's hopes of achieving unity and democracy. Sanaa Television has also noted al-Bid's agreement to meet with Salih. The television noted that al-Bid informed a delegation of clergymen who are mediating the crisis between him and Salih that he is ready to meet with the Yemeni president once efforts to implement the 18 points the Yemeni Socialist Party has proposed are started. For his part, Yemeni Foreign Minister Muhammad Salim Basindwah has expressed optimism over the prospects of ending the political crisis in Yemen. He added that the political dialogue currently under way in Yemen has expunged the likelihood of resorting to violence, and confirmed that unity is there to stay. [passage omitted]
