FBIS4-56329 "drlat085_m_94008" FBIS-LAT-94-085 Daily Report 30 Apr 1994 Brazil Lampreia To Chair WTO Group on Trade, Environment Lampreia To Chair WTO Group on Trade, Environment PY0205203694 Rio de Janeiro O GLOBO in Portuguese 30 Apr 94 p 28 PY0205203694 Rio de Janeiro O GLOBO Portuguese BFN [Report by correspondent Deborah Berlinck in Geneva] [Text] Brazilian Ambassador Luiz Felipe Lampreia was yesterday elected chairman of a group of countries that will propose a number of recommendations on trade and environmental issues to the future World Trade Organization (WTO). These issues could generate a great many controversies for the future organization, as several countries -- Brazil included -- are afraid that some countries, like the United States, could use environmental protection to erect new protectionist barriers. The WTO, which will start functioning in January 1995, will regulate all of the agreements reached during the Uruguay Round of the GATT talks and approved this month in Marrakech, thus putting an end to the most ambitious global GATT negotiations to liberalize world trade in history. The mission of the group, led by Brazil, is to pave the way for the WTO to reach an agreement to reconcile the requirements contained in the many environmental protection treaties, including those approved in the Rio-92 Conference, with trade regulations. This will not be an easy task. American environmentalists, for instance, do not want the issue discussed at the WTO, claiming that trade interests will prevail and that environmental standards will suffer. It is the pressure of these environmentalists that is forcing shrimp catchers in the Brazilian northeastern region to install a new device in their fishing nets to avoid the risk of killing turtles while catching shrimp. A U.S. law protecting turtles enables the U.S. Government today to ban imports of Brazilian shrimp. In 1991, the United States banned imports of Mexican tuna fish over the use of inappropriate nets that were risking the lives of dolphins. The case was taken to GATT, but Mexico itself withdrew the case later when it was trying to join NAFTA.
