FBIS3-52377 "drnes002_s_94003" FBIS-NES-94-002 Document Type:Daily Report 4 Jan 1994 Iran Interior Ministers Meet LD0301213394 Tehran Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran First Program Network in Persian 2030 GMT 3 Jan 94 LD0301213394 Tehran Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran First Program Network Language: Persian Article Type:BFN [Text] Mr. Kasymov, the interior minister of Turkmenistan, and all the governors general of Turkmenistan met and conferred with Interior Minister Besharati on Monday [3 January] afternoon. At the meeting, which was also attended by governors general of Khorasan, Gilan, and Mazandaran and a number of Interior Ministry directors general and officials, Mr. Kasymov referred to the effective role of the Islamic Republic of Iran in the region. He said: Iran is a powerful economic and political country in the region, whose benefits can be enjoyed by her neighbors, including Turkmenistan. Referring to the affection of the people of the people of Turkmenistan for the great Iranian nation, the Turkmen interior minister added: One priority policy of the Turkmen Government is to establish warm and sincere relations with the government and people of Iran. I hope that these trips and exchanges of delegations will result in the further strengthening and expansion of ties between the two countries. Referring to the good relations between the Islamic Republic of Iran and its neighbors in Central Asia and the Caucasus, Mr. Besharati said: In the course of the expansion of commercial and economic relations, we should be watchful of suggestions and temptations by those opposed to the friendship between the two countries. At this sensitive juncture when most countries in the world are facing major economic and moral crises, neighboring countries should strive to solve the problems of one another. Recounting the dangers of narcotics and arms contraband, the interior minister called on the Turkmen authorities to deal seriously with that phenomenon. He declared Iran's readiness to supply the experience gained in that field. At the meeting the governors general of the two countries discussed issues of interest, including creating facilities in matters relating to border transit and visas, opening consulates, expanding railway lines, and setting up maritime communication.
