FBIS3-59254 "drweu019__a94010" FBIS-WEU-94-019-A Document Type:Daily Report 28 January 1994 ANNEX Belgium Dehaene Rejects Resignation Calls in Agusta Affair BR2001141494 Brussels BELGA in French 1732 GMT 19 Jan 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY BR2001141494 Brussels BELGA Language: French Article Type:BFN [Article signed DGO (ADB): "Parliament-Agusta: Dehaene Says `Premature Political Decision'"; as released by Brussels BELGA Database] [Text] Brussels, 18 Jan (BELGA) -- "By virtue of the principle of the division of powers, I must, as a member of the executive authority, abstain from any declaration concerning this case. Personally, I have confidence in the conclusions of the special committee and want it to be able to finish its work completely undisturbed." This was the substance of the reply the prime minister gave to Parliament on Wednesday [19 January] in response to a series of questions about the Agusta affair. Apart from Armand de Decker (PRL) [Liberal Reformation Party] and Olivier Maingain (FDF) [French-speaking Front], all the contributors came from Flemish opposition parties. Herman Lauwers (VU) [People's Union], Mieke Vogels (Agalev) [Flemish Greens], Willy Courtois (VLD) [Flemish Liberals and Democrats] and Francis Van Den Eynde [Flemish Bloc] all called for the resignation of Deputy Prime Minister Guy Come "in the name of political ethics." Such a decision, they insisted, would in no way prejudge the guilt of the person concerned, but would on the contrary allow him to defend himself more calmly and make a small contribution to restoring citizens'confidence in the political world. "Mr. Come himself deplores and contests the accusations made against him," Jean-Luc Dehaene replied. "He feels fully capable of carrying out his ministerial duties. Taking account of the current position of the legal procedures and the fundamental principles of our legal system, it is therefore premature to take a political decision," the prime minister stated. During the replies, Herman Lauwers, parliamentary leader of the VU, told the head of government: "You have just given one of the most dangerous replies that you could have given for the future of this country and democracy."
