FBIS3-46764 "dreas003_l_94001" FBIS-EAS-94-003 Document Type:Daily Report 5 Jan 1994 Philippines Ramos Discusses Government Priorities for 1994 BK0301105594 Quezon City PTV-4 Television Network in Tagalog 0500 GMT 3 Jan 94 BK0301105594 Quezon City PTV-4 Television Network Language: Tagalog Article Type:BFN [Excerpt] [passage omitted] In a report to the nation during a ceremony at Malacanang, the president revealed his administration's plans for this year. Ramos said that the government's priorities will be enhancing the delivery of services to the public, advancing the peace process, and modernization. Ramos added that the service of government officials will be gauged according to their actions, their ability to solve problems, and the implementation of new programs. Overall, he will give priority to five programs this year. [Begin Ramos recording in progress, in English] ...further moves against criminality. Five major commitments government will undertake in 1994: First, we will protect the gains achieved in the peace process so that we can finally put an end to internal armed conflict. As a parallel effort, we will intensify the campaign to uphold the rule of law so that we can reduce to the minimum criminality and corruption, with those in the officialdom, the scalawags in uniform, and row officials as priority targets. We will maintain industrial peace and take better care of our overseas contract workers. Second, we will institute greater discipline in the management of our fiscal resources through better coordination of policies, programs, and projects. We will focus on the thorough and timely implementation of flagship programs and projects: Streamlining of government operations, enhanced private sector participation by way of various BOT [build-operate-transfer] schemes, and privatization of government projects and facilities, as well as further improvements in the tax effort. We will encourage more private investments by continuing the structural reforms we have started and by making our exports and other industries more globally competitive. Third, we will provide vital infrastructure support from government in order to mobilize private sector participation. In this way, we will be able to seize more government resources towards the provision of basic services and direct intervention in the reduction of poverty. Fourth, we will continue to implement our environmental enhancement, conservation, and protection programs to ensure that our development will be sustainable for the benefit of our future generations. This will encompass our land, sea, and air environment, as well as our bio-diverse ecology. Fifth, we will continue to make the bureaucracy more responsive, more transparent, and more service-oriented. Aside from streamlining our operations, we will upgrade morale and welfare programs for public servants to increase their productivity and efficiency. [end recording]
