FBIS3-60581 "jptnd001___94043" JPRS-TND-93-001 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:PROLIFERATION ISSUES 6 January 1994 CENTRAL EURASIA REGIONAL AFFAIRS Official on Ukraine's Reservations of START Ratification LD3011223993 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 2015 GMT 30 Nov 93 LD3011223993 Moscow ITAR-TASS Language: English Article Type:BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Konstantin Pribytkov] [Text] Geneva November 30 TASS -- Reservations made by the Ukrainian Parliament when ratifying the START I Treaty hit a blow on the current regime of nonproliferation of nuclear arms, Russian permanent representative to the U.N. conference on disarmament Grigory Berdennikov told a news conference here today. In fact, there was no ratification, as major components of the START I Treaty and the Lisbon Protocol and a major instrument of their implementation were removed, he said. For instance, the Ukrainian Parliament excluded Article 5 of the Lisbon Protocol. The article ensures Kiev's joining of the treaty on nonproliferation of nuclear arms as a non-nuclear state. What is especially dangerous is that it happened on the eve of a conference on open-ended prolongation of the Treaty scheduled for 1995. Ukraine has actually proclaimed itself the sixth nuclear power. In the words of Berdennikov, Kiev has also violated the agreement signed in early September in Massandra, the Crimea, by the Ukrainian and Russian Government heads to ensure the withdrawal of all strategic nuclear arms to the Russian Federation for further dismantling. The Russian representative called attention to the danger posed by nuclear warheads on Ukrainian territory which are no longer maintained by Russian specialists. Only Russian specialists can efficiently maintain the warheads and the missiles. Thus, all the responsibility for the state of nuclear arms rests on Ukraine. The Ukrainian Parliament resolution is not only the issue of Ukrainian-Russian relations, stressed Berdennikov. It also concerns other nuclear states, depositaries of the treaty on nonproliferation and the whole international community. No doubt, neither the START I nor the START II Treaties can enter into force due to the Ukrainian steps. Berdennikov said they would like to convey Russian concern with Ukrainian actions.
