FBIS3-48878 "dreas020__a94021" FBIS-EAS-94-020-A Document Type:Daily Report 31 January 1994 ANNEX Japan Increase in Aid to Developing Nations Planned OW2301165594 Tokyo NIHON KEIZAI SHIMBUN in Japanese 23 Jan 94 Morning Edition p 3 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY OW2301165594 Tokyo NIHON KEIZAI SHIMBUN Language: Japanese Article Type:BFN [Text] The Foreign Ministry and the Labor Ministry jointly plan to increase their technical assistance to developing nations by sending technicians from the private sector. The ministries plan to review the current system of sending technicians from the private sector overseas -- the current technical assistance is applied to the field of shipbuilding and heavy electrical machinery -- to extend the scope of technical assistance to nonmanufacturing industries. At the same time, the ministries will ask companies through the Federation of Economic Organizations of Japan to use the revised system. The ministries believe that the system will not only enrich international contributions by the Japanese private sector but also enable companies -- which are promoting the restructuring of their organizations or downsizing their technical departments -- to send their technicians overseas. The two ministries established the "skilled technicians" system in 1987 which was designed to send private enterprises' technicians to developing nations as technical advisers. The costs of sending them and a portion of their salaries are covered by the Japan International Cooperation Agency and the Employment Promotion Corporation. However, because of the bubble economy, private enterprises have not taken much interest in the system, and the number of companies which make use of the system has not increased so far. In fiscal year 1993, only 17 companies applied to take advantage of the system. In view of the fact that companies promoting the restructuring of their business systems are increasing, both the Foreign Ministry and the Labor Ministry have decided to make the system more helpful. The ministries also hope to send abroad at least 60 technicians annually. The ministries are considering sending survey missions to Vietnam, Indonesia, and China to learn what areas of technical assistance are needed.
