FBIS3-10922 "drlat050_r_94003" FBIS-LAT-94-050 Document Type:Daily Report 13 Mar 1994 Peru MRTA Communications Center Dismantled in Trujillo PY1403153694 Madrid EFE in Spanish 2132 GMT 13 Mar 94 PY1403153694 Madrid EFE Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Text] Lima, 13 Mar (EFE) -- It was announced today, 13 March, that Counterterrorism Directorate [Dincote] personnel dismantled a Tupac Amaru Revolutionary Movement (MRTA) communications center in Trujillo, 570 km north of Lima. Citing sources close to Dincote, the Lima press reports that Dincote troops have seized powerful radio transmitters and modern communications equipment used by MRTA leaders in Trujillo to communicate with their subordinates in the tropical forest region of Upper Huallaga. This operation, which took place some days ago and culminated with the raid on the center, is another harsh blow to the MRTA. The terrorist group received yet another setback this past week in the same northern city -- the capital of La Libertad Department -- when six MRTA leaders, including an Italian woman, were arrested. The sources state that the communications center was frequently visited by Nestor Serpa Cartolini, alias "Evaristo," the current top MRTA leader following the arrest of Victor Polay in May 1992. Serpa apparently just missed being captured -- he was at the communications center just before the operation was mounted. No arrests were made during the raid. The Dincote report states that one of the two vehicles seized when the six MRTA members were caught belongs to Serpa. Lima EL COMERCIO today reports that the Italian citizen -- a member of the MRTA who lived with a terrorist called "Perseo" -- has been identified as Maria Gabriela Geronino or Gabriela Guarino, allegedly a journalist. In another operation, four Shining Path members were captured in the Province of Cajabamba, in the northern department of Cajamarca. The sources report that the MRTA has been practically mopped up, although there are still some scattered pockets that Serpa is trying to reorganize.
