FBIS3-5628 "dreas046_a_94023" FBIS-EAS-94-046 Document Type:Daily Report 9 March 1994 NORTHEAST ASIA Japan Reportage on Kajima-Nakamura Scandal Continues Olympic Facility Contract Signed OW0903063494 Tokyo KYODO in English 0602 GMT 9 Mar 94 OW0903063494 Tokyo KYODO Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Nagano, March 9 KYODO -- A joint venture led by scandal-ridden Kajima Corp. concluded a contract Wednesday [9 March] with the central Japan city of Nagano on the construction of the 1998 Winter Olympics speed skating venue, city officials said. Representatives of the joint venture initialed the agreement in a signing session Wednesday. Kajima is one of eight major general contractors at the center of investigations into a series of bribery scandals involving politicians and construction firms. Nagano is among a number of municipal and prefectural governments that had held off for a while on concluding contracts with the firms involved in the scandals. But Nagano city officials approved the pact with the Kajima-led joint venture even though a former Kajima vice president was arrested again Tuesday for his suspected involvement in the alleged sending of a 10 million yen bribe to former Construction Minister Kishiro Nakamura. The officials said the city's sanctions against Kajima were not relevant since the arrested Kajima executive, Shinji Kiyoyama, was not a representative of the leading construction firm at the time of arrest. The city invited bids last July for the design and construction of the rink that will be the site of the speed skating events in the 1998 Winter Olympic Games. The five-member joint venture led by Kajima had been scheduled to begin work in February, but conclusion of the contract was delayed because the city had held off signing contacts with Kajima until February 25. On Tuesday, prosecutors arrested Kiyoyama for allegedly providing a 10 million yen bribe to Nakamura, a House of Representatives member, for his help in heading off a Fair Trade Commission criminal complaint on a bid-rigging cartel in Saitama Prefecture in 1992. Prosecutors are asking the Diet to lift immunity on Nakamura so they can arrest him.
