FBIS3-16515 "drsov052_t_94003" FBIS-SOV-94-052 Document Type:Daily Report 16 Mar 1994 BALTIC STATES Estonia NATO Official Assesses Trip at News Conference WS1603172594 Tallinn BNS in English 1343 GMT 16 Mar 94 WS1603172594 Tallinn BNS Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Tallinn, Mar 16, BNS -- Chairman of the NATO Military Committee Field Marshal Sir Richard Vincent expects much from NATO's Partnership for Peace Program, which also Estonia has joined. "I'm convinced that Estonia's and other East European countries' joining the program helps develop international political and economic relations and safeguards peace and security in Europe as a whole," Vincent said at a press conference in Tallinn today. Commenting on Russia's bid to join the Partnership for Peace program, Vincent said it "can be regarded in a serious light." "Some people are worried about NATO's possible cooperation with Russia and ask if this means a new Yalta agreement. I don't see it this way. Any nation that observes democratic principles and abides by the resolutions of international organizations is eligible for membership in the Partnership for Peace program," Vincent said. "I'm certain that this cooperation helps to make Europe a safer place." Vincent didn't consider it likely that Russia would become a full member of NATO any time soon. "Joining NATO is not the same as joining the local tennis club," he said. "A new member will have to commit itself to certain very definite principles and rules that all NATO members recognize." Vincent met yesterday and today with Maj. Gen. Aleksander Einseln, commander of the Estonian Defense Forces, Defense Minister Indrek Kannik, members of the parliamentary National Defense Commission, Foreign Ministry Chancellor Indrek Tarand, and Norwegian Ambassador to Estonia Brit Lovseth. The NATO Military Committee chairman told BNS at the press conference the meetings brought to his attention Estonia's expectations with regard to the Partnership for Peace program and gave him a survey of the country's defense forces, of the plans for the Baltic peacekeeping battalion and the course of Russian troop withdrawal. Other topics touched upon in the meetings included the relations between military and civilian authorities in a democratic society and relevant legislation, as well as the attitude toward NATO of the Estonian public at large. Einseln told the press "the field marshal brought good news to Estonia." "Our cooperation with NATO has proceeded beyond talks," he said. "Soon we shall appoint an officer as Estonia's permanent representative at NATO." Vincent is the first officer of so high a rank to visit Estonia. "My first visit to your country gave me a better understanding of the changes taking place here," he said. "I kept myself informed of your struggles even before, also during World War II. I was five when the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact was concluded and able to understand some things." Vincent is accompanied by his wife, Jean, and five officers.
