FBIS3-18090 "drweu039cc_94004" FBIS-WEU-94-039 Document Type:Daily Report 28 Feb 1994 INTER-EUROPEAN AFFAIRS EU Expansion Negotiations Continue in Brussels Finnish Talks Reach `Crucial Stage' LD2702205194 Helsinki Radio Finland in English 1930 GMT 27 Feb 94 LD2702205194 Helsinki Radio Finland Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] [Announcer] Talks on the terms of Finland's possible membership of the European Union [EU] have moved into a crucial phase with negotiators in Brussels working to reach settlement by midnight Monday [28 February]. According to our correspondents in Brussels, positions on the key issue of regional supports were still far apart on Sunday. We have this report. [Unidentified reporter] It looked on Sunday as if a war of nerves was underway in EU membership negotiations in Brussels. Finnish representatives and officials of the EU gave the media directly conflicting statements on the measure of progress seen. The chairman of the EU's Council of Ministers, Theodhoros Pangalos, told the press on Sunday afternoon that talks with Sweden were the furthest advanced, closely followed by discussions with Finland. He stated that he believed that a settlement was forthcoming on the tough question of the future of Finland's agricultural sector within the EU. In contrast, both Finland's Foreign Minister Heikki Haavisto and Foreign Trade Minister Pertti Salolainen said that not much ground had been covered on Sunday. Salolainen stated that all of the crucial issues were still unresolved and that the EU was holding to its previous positions -- stands which Finland has declared as unacceptable. Salolainen added that while everything possible is being done to ensure the achievement of accord on membership terms, Finland is insisting on viable terms. [Announcer] Meanwhile, the Finnish center-right coalition cabinet was scheduled to meet late Sunday evening to debate the latest results in the membership talks in Brussels. President Mauno Koivisto was also expected to sit in on the cabinet meeting.
