FBIS3-42903 "jpusr017___94029" FBIS-USR-94-017 Document Type:JPRS Document Title: FBIS Report: Central Eurasia 24 February 1994 RUSSIA ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL AFFAIRS Opposition to Moscow Authorities' Fiscal Policy Viewed 944E0474A Moscow SEGODNYA in Russian 5 Feb 94 p 1 944E0474A Moscow SEGODNYA Language: Russian Article Type:CSO [Article by Andrey Grigoryev: "Russia's Currency Market Is Threatened With Paralysis"] [Text] "A duty on transactions concerning the buying and selling of currency" is to be introduced in Moscow as of 1 March. It is assumed that the city budget will receive 0.1 percent of the sum of all exchange currency transactions. In the new year the capital's authorities are very actively implementing the right granted by the presidential edict to introduce additional territorial taxes and duties. In this case, however, it is not quite clear who, in fact, will be the taxpayer. It is obvious that transactions on the Moscow Interbank Currency Exchange will become the basic taxation object. Meanwhile, about 30 percent of the banks participating in the currency auctions of the Moscow Interbank Currency Exchange are not registered in Moscow and the local Moscow tax cannot be applied to them. If the Moscow Interbank Currency Exchange becomes the taxpayer, it will have to double the amount of the exchange duty. (The rate of the commission collected by the exchange now makes up the same 0.1 percent of the transaction.) The commission of most dealer banks, which declined significantly last year, as of today fluctuates within 0.3 to 1 percent. As a result of the introduction of the new tax, the cost of services connected with the buying and selling of currency will increase by 10 to 30 percent. The management of the Moscow Interbank Currency Exchange, holding consultations with a number of exchange members, believes that this can lead, at least temporarily, to the curtailment of exchange trade. It is obvious that any malfunctions and pauses in the operation of the Moscow Interbank Currency Exchange, even if they are due to purely technical reasons, lead to the destabilization of the entire currency market and are immediately reflected in the rate of the ruble. Thus, however paradoxical it may seem, the new tax will have an unfavorable effect on the entire Russian economy.
