FBIS3-10365 "drlat044_m_94009" FBIS-LAT-94-044 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Mar 1994 Brazil PSDB, PFL Seek Alliance on Cardoso Candidacy PY0503150294 Rio de Janeiro O GLOBO in Portuguese 2 Mar 94 p 3 PY0503150294 Rio de Janeiro O GLOBO Language: Portuguese Article Type:BFN [By Luiz Carlos Azedo] [Text] Sao Paulo -- Talks are under way between the leaders of the Brazilian Social Democracy Party [PSDB] and the Liberal Front Party [PFL] to set up a broad alliance to launch the candidacy of Finance Minister Fernando Henrique Cardoso for president of the Republic and of Deputy Luiz Eduardo Magalhaes, leader of the PFL-PTB [Brazilian Labor Party]-PSC [Social Christian Party] bloc in the Chamber of Deputies, for vice president. Yesterday in Sao Paulo, PSDB bloc leader Deputy Jose Sierra spent the morning trying to persuade Senator Mario Covas, leader of the PSDB bloc in the Senate and candidate for governor of Sao Paulo State, that the alliance is possible and essential for the country. Covas opposes the alliance because he feels that the PSDB and the PFL are ideologically incompatible. Covas' major point of concern is the situation in Bahia State, where the PSDB members are diehard opponents of Governor Antonio Carlos Magalhaes, the father of Deputy Luiz Eduardo and sponsor of the Cardoso-Magalhes slate. Ranking PSDB members in Bahia such as Waldir Pires, Jutahy Junior, and Salvador Mayor Lidice da Mata -- who are in favor of setting up an anti-Antonio Carlos Magalhaes front -- are against the proposed PSDB-PFL alliance. Senator Jutahy Magalhaes has warned Covas that such an alliance would cause the PSDB in Bahia to implode. The economic team would be delighted with a PSDB-PFL alliance, on which some PSDB sectors have been working from the outset of negotiations over the stabilization plan. The chances for this alliance to materialize have improved following the outcome of the latest PFL meeting last week when Governor Antonio Carlos Magalhaes described as hasty the launching of his candidacy and endorsed the idea of an alliance with the PSDB. Deputy Jose Anibal (PSDB-Sao Paulo) said: The PFL has worked with the PSDB and has contributed far more closely to making Finance Minister Cardoso's economic policy a success than the PMDB [Brazilian Democratic Movement Party] and the PT [Workers Party]. Aware of this situation, Governor Magalhaes made his move. Encouraged by the positive reaction to the proposal, PFL President Jorge Bornhausen yesterday met with Deputy Luiz Eduardo Magalhaes and with Senator Marco Maciel to discuss the issue and the position the PFL should adopt from now on. Yet, he is elusive about all this. Bornhausen said: The three of us always work together. Based on a decision made at the PFL meeting in Recife, we are going to tour the country until 25 March to sound out the feelings of leading PFL members. We have contacted the PSDB and Minister Cardoso and the possibility of a PSDB-PFL alliance has always been considered but never pursued. Thus far we have not received any formal proposal from the PSDB to this effect.
