FBIS3-9029 "dreeu053__a94026" FBIS-EEU-94-053-A Document Type:Daily Report 16 Mar 1994 ANNEX Hungary Foreign Ministry Issues Statement on AWACS AU1603192694 Budapest MTI in English 1844 GMT 16 Mar 94 AU1603192694 Budapest MTI Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Budapest, 16 Mar (MTI) -- AWACS surveillance aircraft patrolling the airspace of Hungary, among other countries, have a U.N. mandate to continually assist and monitor observance of the flying ban over Bosnia-Herzegovina. These planes are not directly involved in carrying out airstrikes, a NATO spokesman told MTI. Brussels was responding to a group of Hungarian journalists reporting, on the basis of information from a high-ranking NATO general, that AWACS aircraft on duty in Hungary's airspace also had a part in the downing of four Bosnian Serb jets on February 28. (Hungarian Army commander Lieutenant-General Janos Deak stated in the March 2 issue of the daily MAGYAR NEMZET that there was no connection between NATO planes involved in the February 28 air battle and AWACS on a surveillance mission in Hungary that time.) NATO sources, who requested anonymity, called attention to the basic difference between the defensive task of controlling the no-fly ban under a U.N. decision, and a possible offensive action like the airstrike threatened in NATO's February 9 resolution, which finally did not take place. As the U.N. resolution allowing AWACS to stay over Hungary applies only to the former case, participation of surveillance planes in offensive operations was necessarily out of the question. The Hungarian Foreign Ministry's Press Department said in a statement sent to MTI on Wednesday evening: NATO's AWACS aircraft have been patrolling Hungary's airspace for about one and a half years with the permission of Hungary's government based on a parliamentary resolution. Their exclusive task is to assist implementation of the U.N. Security Council's decisions Nos. 781, 816 and 836 by monitoring overflights of prohibited areas in Bosnia-Herzegovina. Accordingly, they are aiming to observe violations of the no-fly ban imposed by the U.N. Security Council. The activity of AWACS planes was limited to this even during the February 28 events.
