FBIS4-30511 "dreas124_n_94006" FBIS-EAS-94-124 Daily Report 26 Jun 1994 Vietnam Deputy Prime Minister Visits Brazil Deputy Prime Minister Visits Brazil BK2606150794 Hanoi VNA in English 1356 GMT 26 Jun 94 BK2606150794 Hanoi VNA English BFN [Text] Hanoi VNA June 26 -- Deputy Prime Minister Phan Van Khai paid an official friendship visit to Brazil on June 23-24 as guest of the Brazilian Government. On June 24 Deputy P.M. Khai was received by President I. Franco. During the reception, Mr. Khai expressed the Vietnamese Government and people's gratitude to the Brazilian Government and people for their sentiments to Vietnam in its struggle for independence and freedom in the past and in national construction at present. Mr. Khai reaffirmed Vietnam's respect for its relations with Brazil, and wished that the Vietnam-Brazil relationship would make positive contributions to building the south-south relationship in the world. President Franco, for his part, praised the achievements recorded by the Vietnamese people in the current renovation process. On the Vietnam-Brazil relations, he said that Brazil has decided to open its embassy in Vietnam. President Franco and Deputy P.M. Khai pointed out the necessary [as received] for Vietnam and Brazil to prepare for the signing of framework agreements to strengthen political, economic, commercial, scientific, technical and cultural relations between the two countries. The same day Deputy P.M. Khai exchanged views with Brazilian Foreign Minister C. Amorim, and Minister for Industry, Commerce and Tourism E. Alvarez on how to promote the two countries' multi-faceted relations. The Vietnamese leader was informed that Brazil is ready to help Vietnam in training a number of students. Earlier on June 23, Deputy P.M. Khai met in Sao Paulo with Brazilian businessmen specializing in such branches as oil and gas, construction, telecommunications, energy, machinery and farm produce processing. He also visited a number of construction projects and factories in Brazil.
