FBIS4-8851 "dreeu075_i_94011" FBIS-EEU-94-075 Daily Report 18 Apr 1994 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA Gorazde Situation Worsens as Attack Continues Gorazde Situation Worsens as Attack Continues Muslims Violating Cease-Fire LD1804145794 Belgrade TANJUG Domestic Service in Serbo-Croatian 1354 GMT 18 Apr 94 LD1804145794 Belgrade TANJUG Domestic Service Serbo-Croatian BFN [Text] Cajnice, 18 Apr (TANJUG) -- Muslim forces have not respected the cease-fire agreement for one moment at the Gorazde front. Since early this morning they have been attacking the Serb positions and using all available infantry and artillery weapons, the command of the [Srpska] Herzegovina Corps said today. The fiercest Muslim attacks have been launched from the Baba and Kik hills about 5-6 km southwest of Gorazde on the left bank of the Drina. The attacks are aimed at the villages of Bachci and Lalete. According to the command of the Herzegovina Corps, it is obvious that the Muslims are trying to break through along the Drina toward the Foca area. In this way they want to draw in the Serb units in the area in order to relieve the right bank of the Drina and regain the territories lost on Saturday and Sunday. Serb positions on Biserna hill above Gorazde on the right bank of the Drina were fiercely targeted from the town today. The heaviest fire is coming from a five-story building in the town center where the United Nations has been accommodated. UN representatives are on the fifth floor of the building, while the Muslims have deployed a heavy machinegun on the fourth floor and an antiaircraft gun on the third floor. Heavy fire can be heard from the area around the bus station. Muslims are targeting Serb positions with 82-mm mortars deployed behind the UN Protection Force building. According to Colonel Jezdimir Lakicevic from the command of the Herzegovina Corps, the Serb forces are responding only when they have to protect themselves. He claims that the Muslims razed 400 houses in the Serb village of Sopotnica, which was liberated yesterday.
