FBIS3-21179 "jpjst010__l94002" JPRS-JST-94-010L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Japan 8 March 1994 Science & Technology Policy/Economic Competitiveness Japan Technomart Falls Short of Goals as Technology Broker 94FE0140B Tokyo NIKKEI SANGYO SHIMBUN in Japanese 12 Nov 93 p 2 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 94FE0140B Tokyo NIKKEI SANGYO SHIMBUN Language: Japanese Article Type:CSO [Text] If a seed of technology released by a large corporation were picked up by a small-medium company and blossomed into a large flower.... Japan Technomart Foundation (Katsushige Mita, chairman) was established in 1985 with the goal of nurturing in Japan a true ``technology marketplace.'' However, with a corporate membership of 300 companies and 10,000 items of registered information, it has only achieved one to two-fifths of the goals set for it by MITI, its starter. Why has its challenge to new business opportunities as a high tech intermediary languished? Problems with Methods Used ``Am I [i.e.Technomart] considered necessary by industry?'' This question has been repeated during Japan Technomart's eight years of existence. The foundation sells distinctive ``sell'' and ``buy'' information using a database. However, of the currently registered patents, no more than 3,000 are sells and no more than 150 are buys. ``Since there are such small absolute numbers, such as ten patents related to semiconductors and three related to portable phones, the number of opportunities for corporate matchmaking just doesn't increase,'' according to Katsutaka Shibata, managing director. There's also a problem of quality. Large companies, small companies, big city companies, and local companies without distinction bring existing technologies and nurture the buds of new businesses. There are voices contradicting that kind of ideal. ``Our company will use money-making patents. If there's technology that will quickly turn into money we'd like to acquire it cheaply from another company,'' curse corporate egos. ``The content of technical information is causing `hollowing','' says an electrical manufacturer. ``Exchange of technical information for invigorating industry is not lacking. Technomart's business will bear fruit,'' asserts Patent Office ``old boy'' Shibata. Tadakata Homma, head of Mitsubishi Electric's intellectual property liaison division, has a positive assessment: ``There is the significance of introducing the advanced technology of large corporations to local corporations.'' ``The problem is that we haven't found a reliable method of getting results through an intermediary,'' says Shibata. The fee structure remains the same as when Technomart was founded: 짜3 million to join and annual dues of 짜3 million. Even so, membership has fallen to half of its peak number amid complaints that members don't get their money's worth. There's frustration in the executive offices that Technomart, which got off to such a glorious start as the ``curtain opener on the technology information age,'' has achieved the real results promised in only 330 cases. Pluses Managing Director Shibata has made up his mind, ``Although it seems like a circuitous route, we have no choice other than to slowly but surely enlighten people.'' A mainstay of this effort is the ``EasyPat'' rights information service started in August 1993. It offers easy personal computer-based searching of the 1.2 million patent and utility models registered in the Patent Office. EasyPat is no match for PATOLIS (offered by the Japan Patent Information Organization) database which prides itself on more than ten million items of industrial rights information. But, ``if you're investigating patents under registration, its size is convenient. PATOLIS charges 짜300 per minute of searching, while EasyPat charges 짜300 per item. Another advantage is being able to take time to search thoroughly,'' says EasyPat's enthusiastic PR. Even if a technology transaction occurs as the result of an EasyPat search, Technomart can't charge a fee for serving as an intermediary. ``The board of directors debated going so far as to spend labor and time,'' said Shibata. However, the majority believed that getting corporations to acknowledge Technomart's existence and role came first. Since April each branch has one technical information advisor. Once every two months they gather in Tokyo to hold an information exchange meeting. They uncover unique technologies in the provinces and also take information back to introduce to managers of local industry in their region. Even One Case ``We call on our branches to work for success in business negotiations. Even just one case is fine,'' says Shibata. It will be a start toward a ``second beginning'' when staff members recover pride in their work. Although companies are enduring cost cutting, there are more and more people wondering if the companies could make more effective use of their intellectual property. ``At any moment the long recession may blow over,'' murmured Shibata as if trying to get himself to agree. Set-up of Technology Exchange Market (Technomart)
