FBIS3-41936 "jptnd001__l94013" JPRS-TND-94-001-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:PROLIFERATION ISSUES 31 January 1994 NEAR EAST/SOUTH ASIA LIBYA Reportage Continues Over Munitions Plant Labor, Interior Officials Comment 94WP0019C Bangkok LAK THAI in Thai 25 Sep 93-1 Oct 93 p 5 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 94WP0019C Bangkok LAK THAI Language: Thai Article Type:CSO [Text] The American charge d' affaires met with General Chawalit Yongchaiyut, the minister of interior, and said that there are 200 Thai laborers working in chemical and nuclear weapons plants in Libya. After that, Mr. Suthat Ngoenmun, the deputy minister of interior, admitted that there are Thai workers employed at those plants. But he said that they are engaged in laying pipes to produce clean water. The Labor Skills Development Department was then ordered to draft a ministry regulation prohibiting Thai laborers from being sent to work at foreign munitions plants. In just 3 to 4 days, the Labor Skills Development Department submitted a draft regulation to the ministry's legal section. But the resolution was not approved, because it was felt that the present labor law does not give the ministry authority in such cases. However, the director-general of the Labor Skills Development Department already has the authority to prohibit this. There is no need to issue a ministry regulation. Last week, Mrs. Amphon Chunnanon, the director-general of the Labor Skills Development Department, told reporters that after it became clear that a ministry regulation couldn't be issued, the department issued an order prohibiting Thai workers from being sent to work at a foreign munitions plant regardless of the type of weapons produced there. This prohibition does not apply just to Libya but to all countries. It is difficult to say how effective this will be. Normally, employment companies declare that they are sending workers to perform one type of job, but they may actually perform some other job. The department can't follow them to see what they are actually doing. Furthermore, a large number of workers have gone abroad to work without going through the Labor Skills Development Department. This is a major problem today. Those laborers may be working at plants where we do not want them to work. Unfortunately, the director-general of the Labor Skills Development Department did not state frankly that prohibiting workers from working at foreign munitions plants is aimed simply at sucking up to the Americans. Actually, it will be difficult to prohibit workers from doing that.
