FBIS3-39060 "drweu028cc_94001" FBIS-WEU-94-028 Document Type:Daily Report 10 Feb 1994 INTER-EUROPEAN AFFAIRS States Neighboring Ex-Yugoslavia Meet in Geneva Austria Supports Military Intervention AU1002114194 Vienna DER STANDARD in German 10 Feb 94 p 3 AU1002114194 Vienna DER STANDARD Language: German Article Type:BFN [Eric Frey report: "Bosnia Conference With Neighboring States"] [Text] For the first time since the outbreak of the Balkans conflict, the neighboring states of the former Yugoslavia were officially involved in the search for a peaceful settlement on Wednesday [9 February]. At the invitation of the international mediators Lord Owen and Thorwald Stoltenberg, representatives of eight states met for a "private" conference in Geneva, convened at short notice. Apart from Austria's Foreign Minister Alois Mock, the foreign ministers of Italy, Romania, Bulgaria, Greece, and Albania, and the Hungarian deputy foreign minister attended the meeting. The Turkish foreign minister canceled his participation at the last minute. Officially, only economic issues -- the impact of the sanctions on the remaining Yugoslavia and economic reconstruction after a peace agreement -- were on the agenda. Yet observers in Geneva noted a deeper political background: Owen and Stoltenberg might try to induce some neighboring countries with closer relations with Serbia, such as Greece and Bulgaria, to exert political pressure on Belgrade. The meeting was dominated by the NATO consultations on a military strike against Serbian positions in Sarajevo. Mock vehemently supported a military intervention by the United Nations and supported the most recent French initiative for air strikes. Instead of merely adopting resolutions, the world community must effectively implement human rights, Mock stressed before the beginning of the talks: "Power without rights leads to tyranny, but rights without power leads to ridicule. An aggressor simply does not take the 25th warning and the 30th resolution of the Security Council seriously any longer." Mock stressed the same issues in a speech to the UN Human Rights Commission, which is currently convening in Geneva. He welcomed the quick nomination of a UN human rights commissioner, decided at the human rights conference in Vienna in June 1993. During a short meeting with UN High Commissioner for Refugees Sadako Ogata, Mock endorsed the creation of a new relief organization that should be jointly run by Muslims, Croats, and Serbs.
