FBIS4-1069 "drafr077_c_94012" FBIS-AFR-94-077 Daily Report 21 Apr 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA TEC Approves Measures To Increase Number of Voters TEC Approves Measures To Increase Number of Voters MB2104114594 Johannesburg SAPA in English 1110 GMT 21 Apr 94 MB2104114594 Johannesburg SAPA English BFN [Report by P. Bulger] [Text] Pretoria April 21 SAPA -- The Transitional Executive Council [TEC] on Thursday [21 April] approved a series of measures to increase the number of people eligible to vote in next week's elections. The council resolved that people who came to South Africa before June 13, 1986 but who under old legislation were denied the right to permanent reidence and the right to vote, would be allowed to vote. The National Union of Mineworkers had pointed out to the council that many of its members had been working in South Africa for decades but were not allowed to claim permanent residence. Now, if they have been in the country for five years and if they arrived before June 13, 1986 they will be allowed to vote. South African Communist Party Chairman Joe Slovo said the amendment put black migrant workers on a par with European migrants. A second resolution amended the Electoral Act to allow homeland residents who are in possession of travel documents to vote. This amendment affects about one million people. The Executive Council also passed amendments to allow the Inkatha Freedom Party [IFP] into the elections. The substance of the amendments was agreed in trilateral talks involving the IFP, the African National Congress and the government earlier this week. The Executive Council agreed to the amendment that will allow the Independent Electoral Commission [IEC] to attach IFP stickers to ballot papers. Joint executive secretary Mac Maharaj said the IEC was subjecting the sticker glue to stringent laboratory tests. These tests would ensure the stickers did not come loose and fall off or cover the names of other parties in which case the ballot would be regarded as a spoilt vote. The amendments will be proclaimed by President F W de Klerk and do not need to come before Parliament when it convenes on Monday.
