FBIS3-4738 "dreas040_c_94007" FBIS-EAS-94-040 Document Type:Daily Report 1 Mar 1994 North Korea Hanminjon Publishes Appeal to People of South SK2702093694 Pyongyang KCNA in English 0824 GMT 27 Feb 94 SK2702093694 Pyongyang KCNA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Pyongyang, February 27 (KCNA) -- The Central Committee of the South Korean National Democratic Front (Hanminjon) published a manifesto on February 23 calling upon the South Korean people to check and frustrate the moves of the U.S. imperialist aggressors and the Kim Yong-sam traitorous group who are bringing dark clouds of nuclear war on the pretext of the fictitious "nuclear problem of the North", the Seoul-based radio Voice of National Salvation reported. The manifesto branded Kim Yong-sam, a pro-American sycophant traitor and warmaniac, as a war servant driving to the extremes in the van the crisis of a war that might impose more hideous national calamities than the tragedy of national division upon the Korean nation which has been subjected to national misfortunes and hardships, falling a victim to the games of outside forces. The basic target of the anti-war, anti-nuke struggle is the U.S. aggression forces, it says, stressing the need to kindle fiercer flames of the national-salvation struggle cross South Korea for the withdrawal of the U.S. imperialist aggression forces trying to force a nuclear war and their nuclear weapons under the banner of anti-U.S. independence. It also calls for further expanding the struggle against Kim Yong-sam, a dyed-in-the-wool pro-American sycophant traitor and heinous war fanatic. The manifesto stresses: The "suspected nuclear development of the North" is a fiction invented with the wicked intention of finding an excuse for blocking a peaceful reunification of the Korean peninsula, increasing the tensions there and unleashing a war against the North. All the people who really love the country and the nation and want national reunification should reject the fiction of "suspected nuclear development" of the North, oppose the campaign for pressure on the North and decisively rise in struggle to smash the scheme for "international cooperation system", a treacherous act of dependence on outside forces, transcending the difference in ideology, idea, system and affiliation. The anti-war, anti-nuke struggle with main stress on the anti-U.S., anti-Kim Yong-sam struggle can be crowned with a brilliant victory only when it is developed into a mass struggle involving all the classes, strata and forces opposed to war and aspiring after peace.
