FBIS4-46196 "jptot022__l94001" JPRS-TOT-94-022-L JPRS Terrorism FOUO 3 June 1994 FBIS TERRORISM REPORT HIGHLIGHTS: 19-27 May FBIS TERRORISM REPORT HIGHLIGHTS: 19-27 May FBIS TERRORISM REPORT HIGHLIGHTS: 19-27 May 11111111 11111111 CSO Editor's Note: The FBIS Terrorism Desk welcomes suscribers' comments and suggestions at (703) 733-5512. Highlights and major incidents in this edition of the FBIS Terrorism Report include: Algeria/Germany Germany's DPA news service reports that two arms seizures this month--one in Morocco, one in France--uncovered German weapons and equipment being smuggled to the Islamic Salvation Front (FIS). Cambodia/Malaysia A Khmer Rouge spokesman denied that the group is responsible for the 18 May grenade attack on the Malaysian Embassy in Phnom Penh. Germany Police seized 60 grams of plutonium 239 from an apartment in Baden-Wuerttemberg in early May. India Delhi police arrested two Hizbul Mojahedin members with two "plastic bombs" intended for use against "VIP areas." Italy About 10 tons of T-4 explosive, the same used in three Mafia car bombs, have disappeared from an explosives manufacturer in Casalbordino. Police arrested two former executives from the manufacturer. Lebanon/Israel During the night of 20-21 May, Israeli forces abducted "Believer's Resistance" leader Mustafa al-Dirani from the al-Biqa area. This Terrorism Report compiles Hizballah, Iranian and Israeli reactions to this event. Lebanon/Palestinians The previously unknown Organization of the Islamic Revolution Army for the Liberation of Palestine claimed responsibility for an attack on Israeli soldiers in the Rshaf area of southern Lebanon on 14 May. Peru An Army patrol seized guns and explosives from an unidentified "terrorist group" in the Arab district of Huanuco Department. Russia/United Kingdom On 16 May, security guards in St. Petersburg found a timed explosive device at a location visited by Prince Charles during his tour of the city. Thailand/Iran The Thai police have issued arrest warrants for Iranians Mohammad Lotfollah and Hossein Shahriarifar. Police are "certain" that the two have left Thailand. Turkey On 18 May, National Front for the Liberation of Kurdistan (ERNK) leader Kani Yilmaz reiterated the warning against tourists visiting Turkey. Turkey/Armenia/Lebanon Istanbul's SABAH newspaper reports that the government has photographic evidence that PKK leader Ocalan received funds and arms through Armenian priests in Bar Ilyas, Lebanon.
