FBIS3-61183 "jpusr003___94007" FBIS-USR-94-003 Document Type:JPRS Document Title: FBIS Report: Central Eurasia 12 January 1994 RUSSIA POLITICAL AFFAIRS Legislation on Use of Foreign Manpower Edict 944F0237A Moscow ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA in Russian 23 Dec 93 p 5 944F0237A Moscow ROSSIYSKAYA GAZETA Language: Russian Article Type:CSO ["Edict of the President of the Russian Federation No. 2146, dated 16 December 1993, On the Recruitment and Use of Foreign Labor in the Russian Federation"] [Text] With a view to implementing a state policy of the Russian Federation with regard to recruiting foreign labor and ensuring the priority right of citizens of the Russian Federation to fill vacant jobs, and in keeping with Edict of the President of the Russian Federation No. 1598, dated 7 October 1993, "On Legal Regulation During the Period of Phased Constitutional Reform in the Russian Federation," I resolve: 1. To approve the appended Statute on the Recruitment and Use of Foreign Labor in the Russian Federation. 2. To establish that a fee amounting to the minimum monthly wage established by the legislation of the Russian Federation shall be collected from employers for the issuance of permits to recruit foreign labor for each recruited foreign employee. The funds collected shall be credited to the revenue side of the relevant budgets. 3. To establish that certificates of the right to labor activities shall be issued free of charge to foreign citizens hired by employers within the quota of the recruited foreign labor. Fees in amounts established by the Federal Migration Service of Russia, jointly with the Ministry of Finance of the Russian Federation, which ensure the recovery of costs associated with the issuance of certificates, shall be collected from employers for the issuance of certificates of the right to labor activities to foreign citizens in cases in which the processing of permits is not required. 4. Employers shall be held accountable through procedures established by the legislation of the Russian Federation for recruiting foreign labor without the requisite permits. Foreign citizens who have entered the Russian Federation with a view to engaging in professional activities and have been hired in violation of the Statute on the Recruitment and Use of Foreign Labor in the Russian Federation shall be subject to deportation from the Russian Federation by the organs of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Russian Federation at the expense of the employer. 5. Employers who, as of the moment of the issuance of the present edict, have labor arrangements with foreign citizens temporarily staying on the territory of the Russian Federation shall bring them into compliance with the Statute on the Recruitment and Use of Foreign Labor in the Russian Federation within three months. 6. The present edict shall be submitted to the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation for consideration. 7. The present edict shall take effect at the moment of signing. [Signed] President of the Russian Federation B. Yeltsin Moscow, the Kremlin 16 December 1993 No. 2146
