FBIS3-37672 "drsov035_a_94023" FBIS-SOV-94-035 Document Type:Daily Report 22 Feb 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Does Not Rule Out More Peacekeepers LD2102214694 Moscow INTERFAX in English 1851 GMT 21 Feb 94 LD2102214694 Moscow INTERFAX Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Russian Defense Minister Pavel Grachev today had a nearly 40-minute telephone conversation with U.S. Secretary of Defense William Perry. As before, the two officials discussed the situation in Bosnia-Herzegovina. In the course of the conversation, Grachev proposed a contingent of U.S. troops be deployed in areas around Sarajevo which are predominantly populated by Bosnian Moslems. In his opinion, this would further improve the situation, after Russia sent its peacekeepers to the positions of Bosnian Serbs. However, the U.S. Secretary of Defense said the United States did not plan to deploy its troops in these areas. In turn, Grachev proposed deploying contingents of such West European states as Great Britain, France and Germany there. Perry promised to discuss the proposal with the other defense ministers. Grachev said Russia insisted on the unacceptability of NATO air strikes on military installations of any of the warring sides. In an interview with journalists after the end of the conversation, Grachev said Bosnian Serbs had withdrawn the bulk of their heavy hardware from around Sarajevo. He said he was confident that the Serbs will accurately fulfil all their obligations. Grachev did not rule out the possibility that more Russian peacekeepers, including the 27th motor rifle division of the Privolzhskiy district and the 46th motor rifle division of the Leningrad district, might be deployed in the Sarajevo region, if necessary. In an answer to journalists' questions, Grachev said NATO air strikes on Serb positions seemed very unlikely at the moment. He suggested that such strikes may be possible only in case of provocations, and are the most likely to be dealt on sporadically populated highland areas as "retaliation or pressure." He pointed out once again that any air strikes in the area were unlikely at the moment.
