FBIS3-53702 "drnes012bb_94001" FBIS-NES-94-012 Document Type:Daily Report 19 Jan 1994 Inter-Arab Affairs Arab League Chief Comments on Syrian-U.S. Summit NC1601111594 Cairo MENA in Arabic 1005 GMT 16 Jan 94 NC1601111594 Cairo MENA Language: Arabic Article Type:BFN [Excerpt] Alexandria, 16 Jan (MENA)--Arab League Secretary General Dr. 'Ismat 'Abd-al-Majid has praised Egypt's leading contribution to a peaceful settlement in the Middle East and to Arab reconciliation and solidarity. Speaking to reporters in Alexandria last night, Dr. 'Abd-al-Majid affirmed that pan-Arabism has not and will not suffer from a setback as a result of ethnic or regional fanaticism. Arabs will continue to be Arabs from the ocean to the Gulf; they will not experience what other ethnic groups, such as those in former Yugoslavia and Mexico, suffered lately, he said. 'Abd-al-Majid described today's meeting between Syrian President Hafiz al-Asad and U.S. President Bill Clinton as a very important event. He expects that meeting to help reach a peaceful settlement and resolve problems between Israel and both Syria and Lebanon. He affirmed Arab League support for Syria and Lebanon and underlined the need for Israel to withdraw from the Golan and south Lebanon. Touching on Egyptian-Sudanese relations, the secretary general stressed the need to resolve the two countries' border dispute through dialogue. He said that Egypt is eager to have good relations with Sudan and to preserve Sudan's unity and avoid the separation of the south from the north. He remarked that the problem in southern Sudan requires solution to be reached through dialogue, while keeping foreign hands off the region. Commenting on the Lockerbie issue, 'Abd-al-Majid remarked that the legal aspects of the case are in Libya's favor, because it is not obliged to hand over its citizens for trial in another state with which it has no extradition agreement. Unfortunately, he said, the political aspect of the case is dominated by the UN Security Council's escalatory measures. The risk lies in a possible oil ban against Libya, he remarked. [passage omitted]
