FBIS3-14037 "drnes055__s94087" FBIS-NES-94-055-S Document Type:Daily Report 25 Feb 1994 PAKISTANI VIEWS * Editorial Urges Change in Indian Attitude for Peace BK0603141894 Karachi NAWA-I-WAQT in Urdu 25 Feb 94 p 5 BK0603141894 Karachi NAWA-I-WAQT Language: Urdu Article Type:BFN [Editorial: "Regional Peace and Security -- India Must Realize its Responsibility"] [Text] During their talks in Islamabad, Chinese Vice Premier Qian Qichen and Foreign Minister Sardar Asif Ahmad Ali stressed the need for maintaining the tempo of the existing bilateral cooperation to ensure regional security. The two leaders held in-depth discussions on regional peace and security, nuclear nonproliferation in South Asia, and other issues. They also expressed serious concern over the violations of human rights in Kashmir. As far as the issue of regional peace and security is concerned, there is no denying the fact that the Kashmir dispute has led to Pakistan-India wars in the past, and the issue has now taken such a serious turn that it may lead to another war between the two countries. Therefore, for the establishment of peace in this region, the resolution of the Kashmir problem by granting their fundamental right to the Kashmiri people is highly essential. India, however, has never adopted a reasonable attitude toward any agreement, be it the accord for protecting minorities or conceding the right of plebiscite to the Kashmiris, or fulfilling the commitments made to the United Nations Security Council. India has always presented the facts in a distorted manner. There have been seven rounds of secretary-level talks, but every round has ended in a failure. Pakistan's sincerity is reflected by the fact that it has approached every round of talks with the hope that India will adopt a reasonable attitude, but New Delhi's objective, obviously, has been to buy more time to continue its oppression and atrocities against the Kashmiris. India has deployed more troops in occupied Kashmir after the latest round of talks with Pakistan. On the nuclear nonproliferation issue, India has never given any encouraging response. Under these circumstances, it is the Indian Government's responsibility to change its attitude to establish real peace about which it has been carrying out hollow propaganda thus far. *
