FBIS4-4212 "drchi083_h_94006" FBIS-CHI-94-083 Daily Report 27 Apr 1994 West Europe Li Ruihuan Discusses Ties With French Delegation Li Ruihuan Discusses Ties With French Delegation OW2704173694 Beijing XINHUA in English 1411 GMT 27 Apr 94 OW2704173694 Beijing XINHUA English BFN [Text] Beijing, April 27 (XINHUA) -- Li Ruihuan, chairman of the National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC), said he was glad to see the new development of Sino-French relations when meeting with a group of French visitors here this evening. Li was talking with Jean Matteoli, chairman of the Economic and Social Council of France, and his party. Extending his warm welcome to French friends, Li said that China and France are two great countries making important contributions to civilization. He continued that the two countries, sharing many identical points, should strengthen exchanges and maintain and develop friendly relations of cooperation. He said that "during the 30 years of diplomatic relations between the two countries, bilateral relations have been built up in general. "A few years ago, due to various reasons, bilateral relations witnessed difficulties, but we are pleased to see that recently such relations have returned to normal and are in unbroken development," he added He noted that comprehensive contacts between China and France constitute an important link in developing bilateral relations. He said that "We know the French Economic and Social Council's important role and its experiences in various aspects," voicing that constant contacts between CPPCC and the council are of great significance in consolidating and developing bilateral friendly relations. He hoped that such contacts can be continuously strengthened. Matteoli expressed his thanks for Li's warm and friendly talks and said that there is no problem which can lead to difficulties between the two countries. He noted that "France and China had the same experiences during the Second World War, which can never be forgotten by the two countries." He said, "I believe that bilateral relations full of mutual trust will continue to develop and I will make my own efforts to this end." Qian Zhengying, vice-chairperson of the CPPCC, was present at the meeting. After the meeting, Li hosted a banquet in honor of the French guests.
