FBIS4-18193 "drweu063cc_94002" FBIS-WEU-94-063 Daily Report 31 Mar 1994 INTER-EUROPEAN AFFAIRS EC Staff To Be Screened, Documents Classified EC Staff To Be Screened, Documents Classified BR0104104994 Brussels LA LIBRE BELGIQUE in French 31 Mar 94 p 5 BR0104104994 Brussels LA LIBRE BELGIQUE French BFN [Article by Christophe Lamfalussy: "Charlemagne Building Under Surveillance"] [Excerpts] Soon, official documents will be classified and security investigations will be carried out. The transparency of the Twelve is not without its limits. The 2,000 officials working at the Council of Ministers, most of whom work in the Charlemagne Building in Brussels, will soon be subjected to security regulations aimed at reducing access to confidential documents and screening the trustworthiness of some of its staff. [passage omitted] The Council is where European policy is coordinated and where the memoranda of each government end up. The implementation of the Maastricht Treaty, which makes the Council responsible for the Common Foreign and Security Policy (CFSP) and for cooperation on issues of justice, has effectively increased its power. [passage omitted] The Twelve envisage creating four categories of document -- top secret, secret, confidential, and restricted -- which would remain classified for five years. The top secret documents would contain information that unauthorized divulgence would have extremely serious consequences for the essential interests of the Union and its member states. The Staff Committee simply wants to abolish the "restricted" category, the definition of which is so broad that its implementation would mean that neither the media nor the members of the European Parliament would no longer have access to significant information. Another focus of discontentment is that the Twelve intend to make the secret services responsible for conducting security investigations of all those officials authorized to consult confidential documents. [passage omitted] Since there is no European secret service, the Staff Committee has suggested that the Belgian secret service do the investigating. Such procedures have existed within the European Commission since 1958 due to the Euratom Treaty, which delegated powers in the area of nuclear safety.
