FBIS4-65003 "drweu091_n_94004" FBIS-WEU-94-091 Daily Report 23 Apr 1994 NORDIC COUNTRIES Finland * Rehn Rejects Closer NATO, Nordic Ties * Rehn Rejects Closer NATO, Nordic Ties 94EN0318G Helsinki HUFVUDSTADSBLADET in Swedish 23 Apr 94 p 5 94EN0318G Helsinki HUFVUDSTADSBLADET Swedish CSO [Article by Maria Romantschuk: "Rehn Not Excited About Swedish Commander in Chief's Proposal"] [Text] Defense Minister Elisabeth Rehn (RKP [Swedish People's Party]) is not excited about the proposal for further expanded defense cooperation in the Nordic region. "This is a matter he has returned to several times," Rehn commented yesterday. She is of the opinion that it has already been extensively realized, since defense cooperation at all levels in the Nordic countries is good. Bengt Gustafsson, the Swedish commander in chief, who has proposed Nordic defense cooperation before as well, thinks that membership in the European Union [EU] opens up possibilities of close cooperation between the defense forces of the Nordic countries. He does not regard it as a problem that certain Nordic countries are members of NATO. Gustafsson presented his views in an interview with the newspaper HELSINGIN SANOMAT yesterday. The commander in chief says that cooperation could be initiated with joint monitoring of the airspace and of the Baltic Sea. He motivates his suggestion by the fact that if the Nordic area is faced with a military threat of any kind, it would apply to all the Nordic countries and not to any individual country. "I ask myself whether we are ready for joint monitoring of this kind. That is actually the most basic defense in each country, and those are among the most important functions that each individual country wants to keep to itself," Rehn says. Decisions of this kind would presume entirely new evaluations of the defense. Meeting With the Baltic Ministers The already existing good cooperation is, in Rehn's opinion, shown by the recurrent defense ministerial meetings, for example, most recently over this past weekend, when the ministers pondered Macedonia [The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia -- FYROM] and how to arrange the cooperation. At the beginning of June the Nordic defense ministers and the Baltic defense ministers will meet in Visby. Rehn does not think that new institutions for defense cooperation in the Nordic region are needed, not even in the event Finland, Sweden, and Norway become members of the EU. "What I am negative to is the idea of a direct union. No institutions are necessary in order to practice cooperation."
