FBIS3-37185 "drsov031_u_94004" FBIS-SOV-94-031 Document Type:Daily Report 15 Feb 1994 BALTIC STATES Latvia National Independence Movement To Form `Shadow Cabinet' WS1402184894 Riga DIENA in Latvian 3 Feb 94 pp 1, 8 WS1402184894 Riga DIENA Language: Latvian Article Type:BFN [Article by Sanita Upleja: "LNNK Faction Announces Crisis in Parliament and Government"] [Text] Riga, 2 Feb -- The Movement for Latvia's National Independence [LNNK] faction in the Saeima [parliament] is of the opinion that due to the ill-considered actions of the government, there is a crisis in the Saeima, as well as the government, the LNNK deputies announced at a press conference today. The deputies stated at the conference that the opposition is going to establish a "shadow cabinet." However, they still have to wait for the right moment -- among other reasons, because of lack of resources. The LNNK deputies said that the government itself could solve the situation by seriously reconsidering its actions. The LNNK faction has also disseminated a statement, in which it asks all inhabitants of Latvia to express their views on the actions of the Latvia's Way and Farmers Union coalition, as well as those of the government that was established by this coalition. The LNNK also urged representatives of all Saeima factions to respect the interests of the Latvian nation, instead of supporting "various interest groups." As Maris Budovskis stated at the conference, the reason for the government crisis is the great haste with which the government strives to take over all possible power. As an example, M. Budovskis pointed to the cabinet's 28 December 1993 decision to put the Radio and Television Council under the control of the Ministry of Education, Science, and Culture. In his opinion, this is a dangerous precedent which shows their desire to control the mass media. According to M. Budovskis, the Parliamentary Commission of State Administration and Municipality has informed the government that several parliamentary commissions have protested against this subordination of the Radio and Television Council. He also recalled the unfortunate laws passed by the cabinet, under Article 81 of the Constitution during parliamentary recesses, and expressed doubt as to their legality and the need for such haste in passing them. M. Budovskis stressed that many of the government laws were passed in contradiction to Article 81, because they introduced changes in laws that had already been passed by the existing Saeima. Moreover, several of these laws had been drafted and submitted at the time to the Saeima and were awaiting discussion. By adopting those laws, the government has shown a lack of trust in the Saeima's competence and has reduced the powers of the municipalities. M. Budovskis also stated that the ill-considered behavior of the cabinet apparently has created conflict in the Latvia's Way faction, because certain voting results bear evident signs of a breakdown in faction discipline. At the same time, Aristids Lambergs predicted that in the very near future the ruling coalition would find itself in danger of splitting, and that it should think of attracting partners from other factions. LNNK Deputy Anna Seile expressed the opinion that currently "the government dictates the rules to the governing coalition," while the coalition should be the one to regulate the activities of the government that was created by it.
