FBIS4-19311 "drweu074_e_94001" FBIS-WEU-94-074 Daily Report 17 Apr 1994 UNITED KINGDOM Defense Chief Assails `Armchair Critics' on Bosnia Defense Chief Assails `Armchair Critics' on Bosnia LD1704145794 London PRESS ASSOCIATION in English 1356 GMT 17 Apr 94 LD1704145794 London PRESS ASSOCIATION English BFN [By Chris Moncrieff, PRESS ASSOCIATION political editor] [Text] Defence Secretary Malcolm Rifkind today lashed out at armchair critics who claimed the warring factions in Bosnia could be bombed into submission by NATO air strikes. He denounced the suggestion as "facile," adding: "I am not the slightest bit surprised that those who have put it forward have been discredited." He claimed the United Nations would have sustained far higher fatalities and injuries over the last few months if it had not been prepared to use the force available to protect its own men. But in a wide-ranging interview on the BBC Radio 4 "The World This Weekend" programme Mr Rifkind warned: "Do not expect there to be good progress in all directions. This is a very messy, bloody war. The idea it can be sorted out in some neat, clinical way is a nice aspiration, but totally unrealistic." Mr Rifkind stressed the United Nations role was peacekeeping and humanitarian. "You have siren voices claiming that the United Nations should turn itself into a warmonger and impose a peace on someone else's civil war." He urged those countries which had pledged more troops to Bosnia to "get their act together a bit more quickly." Earlier, Mr Rifkind described the events in the Gorazde area as "a very serious deterioration." "The most important priority are the negotiations taking place at this moment, as we speak, which are designed to allow the UN to send a force into Gorazde itself to help stabilise the situation and ensure there is no further deterioration." He said the British Government took the view that the primary use of air power was to defend UN forces. "It is quite a foolish mistake to suggest that the occasional use of air power can have decisive implications for the future of the war in Bosnia. That is not the UN's role, nor should it ever be the UN's role because air power by itself could not do that." But he added: "The right of self-defence is a fundamental right and British forces, ever since Day One, have made abundantly clear that they are prepared to fight back, if necessary, to defend our people."
