FBIS4-33876 "drlat113_f_94001" FBIS-LAT-94-113 Daily Report 10 Jun 1994 El Salvador `Declassified' CIA Document Serves Libel Suit Defense `Declassified' CIA Document Serves Libel Suit Defense PA1206122494 Mexico City NOTIMEX in Spanish 2234 GMT 10 Jun 94 PA1206122494 Mexico City NOTIMEX Spanish BFN [Text] San Salvador, 10 Jun (NOTIMEX) -- The defense of former rebel [Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front -- FMLN] commander Joaquin Villalobos, charged with libel, today presented in court an alleged CIA document confirming the existence of death squads in El Salvador. The documents, which were delivered Friday to the Eighth Penal Court, prove the links of Salvadoran businessman Orlando De Sola to the deaths squads, which were responsible for the death last decade of hundreds of civilians. De Sola sued Villalobos in November for libel, after the former guerrilla assured the local press that the businessman financed these paramilitary groups. "It is an official CIA text," Attorney Felix Ulloa told the press after delivering the document that makes up a package [words indistinct] that the U.S. Government "declassified" in November 1993. Washington released the documents following the October 1993 murders of former rebel commanders Francisco Velis, Heleno Castro, and two other high-ranking leaders of the current FMLN political party. Ulloa has assured that the text states "that Orlando De Sola is linked with isolated groups of Salvadorans in Miami, Florida, which finance the death squads." According to the Truth Commission -- in charge of investigating violations of human rights during the civil war that the country underwent for nearly 12 years -- these groups were financed by Salvadoran businessmen residing in Miami and backed by the [Salvadoran] state. The defense attorney requested the court to verify with the U.S. Embassy in El Salvador the document's "authenticity." "We believe that with what we have presented, Villalobos is exonerated of whatever penal responsibility in the libel case because this (the document) proves what he said," Ulloa said. Rigoberto Chicas, secretary for the Eight Penal Court said that the evidence supplied by Villalobos will be "examined and appraised" by the authorities. He announced that it is possible that the court may issue a resolution by the end of June or beginning of July.
