FBIS3-54722 "drsov001_r_94010" FBIS-SOV-94-001 Document Type:Daily Report 3 Jan 1994 Azerbaijan Involvement in Pipeline Explosion Denied NC3012195993 Baku Radio Baku Network in Azeri 1300 GMT 30 Dec 93 NC3012195993 Baku Radio Baku Network Language: Azeri Article Type:BFN ["Text" of statement by the Presidential Press Service in Baku; date not given] [Text] Armenia's mass media outlets have recently intensified their frantic behavior against Azerbaijan. This approach is aimed at provoking interethnic discord and creating a negative image of Azerbaijan's people and an inaccurate impression of the nature of the dispute between Armenia and Azerbaijan. The reports published by Armenia's news agencies, stating that the Azerbaijani people are to blame for the destruction of the natural gas pipeline in Georgia's Marneuli Rayon, are typical of the unhealthy and insidious Armenian propaganda activities. These reports are an example of the information disseminated against Azerbaijan. It is true that the pipeline, which supplies natural gas to Armenia, was sabotaged in Marneuli Rayon on 18 December. However, it is common knowledge that the Armenian military units control that (?pipeline). Furthermore, the pipeline is protected by mines that were laid by the Armenian side. In fact, several Georgian workers sent to repair the damage to the pipeline were seriously wounded by an exploding mine. Thanks to the measures taken by the leading officials in neighboring Kazakhskiy Rayon in Azerbaijan, urgent medical aid was given to the wounded workers in Kazakh City. The workers were then transferred to Georgia. The matter has nothing to do with Azerbaijan carrying out destructive activities and taking hostages. On the contrary, it is related to Armenia's harmful activities against the citizens in Georgia, which is a sovereign republic, and Azerbaijan's humanitarian approach toward those who have been harmed as a result of provocative activities [words indistinct]. Undoubtedly, Armenia's provocative activities have not been effectively condemned. Unfortunately, [words indistinct] radio and television company in Russia have created favorable opportunities for the broadcasting of Armenia's completely unfounded information without attempting to verify it.
