FBIS3-59671 "jpjst002__l94010" JPRS-JST-94-002-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Japan 3 January 1994 Science & Technology Policy/Economic Competitiveness Tohoku Intelligent Cosmos Plan Outlined 93FE0984J Tokyo GAKUJUTSU GEPPO in Japanese Aug 93 p 5--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 93FE0984J Tokyo GAKUJUTSU GEPPO Language: Japanese Article Type:CSO [Article by Nakao Ishida, Chairman of the Cosmos Planning Promotion Conference, Professor Emeritus of Tohoku University, Doctor in the Medical Department of Tohoku National University] [Text] The Tohoku Intelligent Cosmos Plan which covers the seven prefectures in the Tohoku region including Niigata prefecture was proposed in 1987, has proceeded smoothly, and six years have already passed. Its intent is to make the Tohoku region a major base of science, technology, and information as well as a base to launch information overseas. We see that 11 R&D companies have been established in each region in Tohoku. Creative research organizations related to communications, new materials, and biotechnology appeared one by one. More than 50 patents have been applied for at the Low Power High-Speed Communication Laboratory since research activities began five years ago. 1. Funding Bases for basic and applied research can be established in Japan outside of universities. Investment capital consisted of the 70% which came from special industrial investment by the government and the remaining 30% of private capital. Companies with a particularly strong interest in the research items provided funds and researchers to give rise to a new form of research laboratory with money and people. It was proven that if prominent researchers or research advisors are present, research development is possible even outside university laboratories. 2. Research period One problem is the time limitation. Specifically, we would like to think in terms of six years. As a consequence, the research content is squeezed into an approach road until establishment. Moreover, specifying the method for research cooperation is crucial. Even when the objective is shared, regular preparation such as adjusting the methodology is required from the first year of the undertaking. 3. Regional expectations and central expectations The next obstacle posed is how are these results tied to advanced industrialization. Not only specially licensed corporations called base centers (Ministry of International Trade and Industry and Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications) which are in charge of investments, the biological research organization (Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, and Fisheries), or the medical equipment fund (Ministry of Health and Welfare) have the "desire to clarify the output," each private corporation participating in R&D imagines commercial development of the results. In addition, while thoroughly supporting the ideas and substance of the plan in the Tohoku Intelligent Cosmos Plan in the government's Tohoku Development Promotion Plan which received Cabinet approval on March 22, 1991. The expectation of obtaining results that fostered new industries was clearly stated. 4. Operation of future regional bases The seeds chosen for R&D were not begun without sufficient alignment with the needs of the companies or the country. In addition, businesses generally do not have the boldness and implementation strength to position themselves for new product development and production. This is a dilemma of regional areas. As a result, with industry, government, and academia continuing to understand each others perspectives. The problems exposed by people in the objective awareness of the level of academia, the improvements in overall understanding by the government, and the prerequisite investment by industry are being eliminated through cooperation.
