FBIS4-46153 "jptot022__l94062" JPRS-TOT-94-022-L JPRS Terrorism FOUO 18 April 1994 NEAR EAST/SOUTH ASIA INDIA Ultras Allegedly Told To Kill India's Top Leaders Ultras Allegedly Told To Kill India's Top Leaders 94WR0145A Bombay THE TIMES OF INDIA in English 18 Apr 94 p 1 94WR0145A Bombay THE TIMES OF INDIA English CSO [Text] Jammu, April 17--Pakistani agencies have issued fresh directions to some militant outfits and their agents operating in Jammu and Kashmir to kill India's political leaders, according to top official sources, reports PTI. The sources said, that recently intercepted radio messages from across the border revealed that major contacts within the state have been told to attack political leaders wherever possible. This, the sources said, was being done to thwart the initiation of political process and subsequent elections in Jammu and Kashmir. The major targets, according to these messages, were the top leaders of the Jammu and Kashmir National Conference and of the pradesh Congress committee. However, leaders from the Janata Dal and CPM [Communist Party of India] were also placed high on the target lists. One message intercepted during the recent Jammu tour of the Union minister of state for internal security, Mr Rajesh Pilot, had asked its contacts to do "anything" to eliminate the visiting dignatary. In view of these threats, most of the political personalities in the state, including those in the Jammu region, have been provided with a tight security cover in the form of armed guards at their residences. More than 2,000 police personnel were deployed for security cover duty in the state. There were about 550 to 600 politicians and other political activists who had migrated from Kashmir to Jammu and Delhi after several political leaders and former legislators were killed in the Valley. The militants recently gunned down Mr Wali Mohammed Itto, the former speaker of the J and K assembly and Mr Ghulam Qadir Mir, a former independent MLA [Member of Legislative Assembly] and close lieutenant of Sheikh Abdullah. While Mr. Itto was killed outside a mosque after offering prayers in Khati-ka-Talab area of Jammu on March 18, Mr. Mir was shot dead in his house at Muran village of Pulwama district in Kashmir valley on April 9.
