FBIS3-59747 "jpjst001___94001" JPRS-JST-94-001 Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Japan Fiscal Year 1993 Budgets for Science and Technology 24 January 1994 Fiscal Year 1993 Budgets for Science and Technology 93FE0950 Tokyo GAKUJUTSU GEPPO in Japanese, Jul 93 93FE0950 Tokyo GAKUJUTSU GEPPO Language: Japanese, Article Type:CSO [Text] Table of Contents A. Introduction B. Overview of FY93 Science and Technology Budgets C. Summary of S&T Promotion Expenses 1. Overview 2. Space Development Expenses (1) Overview (2) National Space Development Agency 3. Ocean Development Expenses (1) Overview (2) Main Projects (3) Total FY93 Government Budget for Ocean Development 4. Large-Scale Industrial Technology Expenses 5. Expenses for Computer Industry Promotion 6. Expenses for Each Ministry's Research Institutes 7. Special Coordination Funds for Promoting S&T 8. Subsidies and Commissions for S&T Research Expenses 9. Other Expenses D. Energy Measures Expenses 1. Introduction 2. Expenses for Promotion of Research on the Peaceful Use of Atomic Energy (1) Safety Research (2) Development of New-Type Power Reactors (3) Development of Nuclear Fuels (4) Fusion Research (5) Nuclear-Powered Ship Research 3. Expenses for New Energy Technology 4. Expenses for Energy-Conservation Technology E. Other Research-Related Expenses (Reference) Global Environmental Preservation Budgets Science Council of Japan A. Consultation-Related Expenses 1. Consultation Expenses -- ¥134.331 million 2. Research Liaison B. International Scientific Exchange Expenses 1. International Contributions 2. Domestic Conferences (1) FY93 Conferences (2) Preparation for FY94 Conferences 3. Dispatching Representatives 4. Bilateral Exchange with Other Countries 5. Asia Scientific Conference (provisional name) C. Expenses for Council Member Recommendations Science and Technology Agency A. Overview B. Strengthening Innovative, Basic Research and Maintaining The S&T Promotion Base 1. Expanding Special Coordination Funds for Promoting S&T To Organize a System for Fostering Centers of Excellence 2. Expanding Important, Basic Research Promotion Programs such as the Innovative S&T Promotion Program 3. Facilitating Research Exchange 4. Maintaining the S&T Promotion Base (1) Improving Research Facilities, Starting With Deterioration Countermeasures (2) Expanding Per-Person Research Expenses (3) Expanding S&T Talent Measures (4) Large-Scale Radiation Facility (SPring-8) Construction (5) Facilitating More Advanced R&D Functions in Regions (6) Facilitating the Distribution of S&T Information C. Contributing to the International Community Through S&T 1. Comprehensive Promotion of International Research Exchange (1) Establishing the Framework for a Wide-Area International Research Cooperation Network (2) Facilitating International Exchange Among Researchers (3) Facilitating the International Distribution of S&T Information 2. Promoting International-Contribution Projects (1) Strengthening Earth S&T Efforts in the Asian-Pacific Region (2) Promoting the Human Frontier Science Program (3) Participation in the ITER Project (4) Participation in the Space Station Project (5) S&T Cooperation with and Support for Asian-Pacific Countries, the Former Soviet Union, etc. D. Promoting S&T Aimed at a More Comfortable Way of Living 1. Comprehensive Promotion of Human Gene Analysis 2. Promoting S&T Aimed at Solving Problems Close to Lifestyle E. Comprehensive Promotion of S&T Policy 1. Expansion of the Special Coordination Funds for Promoting S&T 2. Strengthening Functions for Promoting S&T Policy 3. P.R. and Educational Activities F. Promoting Research, etc., in Key S&T Fields 1. Promoting Atomic Energy Development, Utilization, and Safety Measures (1) Strengthening Atomic Energy Safety Measures and Nuclear Nonproliferation (2) Japan Atomic Energy Research Institute (3) Power Reactor and Nuclear Fuel Development Corporation (4) National Institute of Radiological Sciences (5) The Institute of Physical and Chemical Research's Atomic Energy Research (6) National Laboratories' Atomic Energy Test Research 2. Promoting Space Development and Utilization (1) National Space Development Agency (2) The National Aerospace Laboratory's Space S&T Research 3. Promoting Ocean Development (1) Japan Marine S&T Center (2) Other 4. Promoting Earth S&T R&D (1) Promoting Earth Observation Technology R&D (2) Promoting Research To Elucidate Global-Scale Phenomena (3) Promoting Disaster Prevention S&T R&D 5. Promoting Materials S&T R&D 6. Promoting Life Sciences R&D 7. Promoting Other Important General Research (1) NAL's Aircraft Technology Research (2) Other Environment Agency A. Overview B. Expenses for National Organizations' Test Research on Pollution Prevention, etc. 1. Comprehensive Research on Air Pollution Prevention 2. Comprehensive Research on Improving Wastewater Treatment 3. Comprehensive Research on Marine Pollution Prevention 4. Comprehensive Research on Inland Water Pollution Prevention 5. Comprehensive Research on Waste Processing and Recycling Technology 6. Comprehensive Research on Management and Preservation of Natural Environments 7. Comprehensive Research on the Development of Environment-Preserving Planning Methods in Cities 8. Comprehensive Research on Noise, Vibration Prevention and Assessment 9. Comprehensive Research on Advanced Technology for Measuring Environmental Pollutants 10. Comprehensive Research on Assessing the Impact of Environmental Pollutants 11. Research Not Covered Under Comprehensive Research Projects C. Expenses for Research Studies on Pollution Prevention, etc. D. Coordination Funds for Promoting Comprehensive Research Studies on Environmental Conservation E. Expenses for Comprehensive Promotion of Global Environmental Research F. National Environmental Research Institute 1. Maintenance, Expansion of Research System 2. Expansion of Research Activities G. National Minamata Disease Research Center Ministry of Education A. Overview B. Expanding the Subsidies for Scientific Research Expense C. Promotion of Important Basic Research 1. Astronomy Research 2. Accelerator Science 3. Space Science 4. Fusion Research 5. Ocean Science 6. Prediction of Earthquakes and Volcanic Eruptions (1) Earthquake Prediction (2) Volcanic Eruption Prediction 7. Antarctic Observation Project 8. Promotion of the "Ten-Year Anti-Cancer Strategy" 9. Promotion of Research Based on New Program Formats D. Maintenance, Repletion of Research Facilities E. Maintenance, Repletion of Research Facilities 1. Maintenance of Inter-University Research Institutes (a) National Laboratory for High-Energy Physics (b) Japanese Literature Research Materials Hall (c) National Polar Research Institute (d) Institute of Space and Astronautical Science (ISAS) (e) National Institute of Genetics (f) Institute of Statistical Mathematics (g) International Japanese Culture Research Center (h) National Observatory (i) Fusion Science Research Institute (j) Okazaki National Research Institutes (k) National Center for Scientific Information Systems (NACSIS) (l) National Folklore Museum (m) National Historical Folklore Museum 2. Laboratories Affiliated with National Universities 3. Japan Academy F. Promotion of Research Cooperation with Industry 1. Setting Up Joint Research Centers 2. Repletion of System of Joint Research with the Private Sector 3. Acceptance of Commissioned Research 4. Acceptance of Commissioned Researchers, etc. 5. Acceptance of Scholarship Contributions 6. Promotion of Test and Applied Research by Means of Subsidies for Scientific Research Expenses "Test Research" 7. Promotion of JSPS "Social Cooperation Scientific Enterprises" G. Support for Private Scientific Research Organizations H. Maintenance, Repletion of Scientific Information and Data 1. Maintenance, Repletion of Scientific Information Systems (a) Maintenance of NACSIS (b) Maintenance, Repletion of Component Organizations in the Scientific Information System 2. Maintenance, Repletion of Scientific Materials (a) Maintenance of Animal Experiment Facilities (b) Strain Preservation Enterprises (c) Maintenance of Scientific Specimens (d) Maintenance of Isotope Research Facilities I. Repletion, Strengthening of the JSPS J. Promotion of Global Environmental Research K. Promotion of International Cooperative Projects 1. International Joint Research Projects (a) New Joint Research Starting in FY93 (b) Continued Joint Research (c) Japan-U.S. S&T Cooperation Projects 2. Promotion of UNESCO Projects (a) Global Environmental Science (Asia, Pacific region) Projects (b) Cooperative Basic Science Efforts in Southeast Asia 3. International Research Conferences (a) Sending Researchers to International Research Conferences (b) Expenses for Holding International Symposia (c) International Conferences Held in Japan Ministry of Health and Welfare A. Overview B. Health Science Conferences C. Promotion of Test Research 1. Health Science Research Expenses (1) Expenses for General Research in Longevity Science (2) Ten-Year Anti-Cancer Strategy (3) Basic Human Science Research (4) Expenses for New Medical Technology R&D 2. Outlays for Research on Specific Diseases 3. Other Important Research Expenses 4. Test Research Organization Expenses 5. Investment and Loan System for R&D of Pharmaceuticals, etc. Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries Research A. Overview B. Implementation of R&D To Cope with Important Policy Issues 1. R&D for Improvements in Agricultural Productivity 2. R&D To Cope with Advanced, Diversified Consumer Needs 3. R&D To Cope with Global Environmental and Tropical Agriculture Problems C. Strengthening Basic and Pioneering Research and Promoting Research Exchange 1. Strengthening Basic and Pioneering Research (1) Development of Innovative Technology By Utilizing Advanced Technologies (2) Strengthening the Base that Supports Agriculture, Forestry and Fishery R&D 2. Promoting Research Exchange and Supporting Private-Sector R&D (1) Promoting Research Exchange (2) Supporting Private-Sector R&D (3) Support for Prefectural R&D 3. Repletion of the Test Research System D. Major New Items in FY93 1. Technology Development for Rationalizing Regionally Managed Agriculture (1) Summary (2) Contents of the Research 2. Research Strategy Measures for Development of Future Agricultural Technology (1) Summary (2) Contents of Surveys 3. Development of Methods for Planning Agricultural Village Activation By Utilizing Regional Resources (1) Summary (2) Contents of the Research 4. Elucidation of Crop Hardening Mechanisms in Severely Cold Environments (1) Summary (2) Contents of the Research 5. Elucidating the Causes of, Predicting Future Fluctuations in Vegetable Supply and Demand (1) Summary (2) Contents of the Research 6. Research on Hybrid Wood Materials to Improve Housing Characteristics (1) Summary (2) Contents of the Research 7. Projects to Aid in the Preservation of Developing Countries' Genetic Resource (1) Summary (2) Contents of the Projects 8. Basic Surveys of Climatic Fluctuations and Damages Due to Harmful Insects in Southern Asia (1) Summary 9. R&D Related to the Utilization of Insect Functions (1) Summary (2) Contents of the Research 10. Research on Microorganisms that Live in Cows' Ruminant Stomachs (1) Summary (2) Contents of the Research 11. Development of Technology for Preventing the Spread of Harmful Naturalized Plants (1) Summary (2) Contents of the Research 12. Development of Vaccination Techniques for Preventing and Eradicating Viral Diseases in Cultivated Fish (1) Summary (2) Contents of the Research 13. Development of MHC Pure-Line Mini Pigs for Elucidating the Biological Defense Mechanisms of Livestock (1) Summary (2) Contents of the Research 14. Development of Assessment Methods for Advanced Utilization of Recombinants (1) Summary (2) Contents of the Research 15. Development of Technology for Utilizing and Evaluating the Functions with Which Agricultural, Forestry, and Fishery Products Contribute to Health Maintenance Ministry of International Trade and Industry A. Structural Strengthening of the R&D System 1. Radical Expansion of MITI R&D Budget (1) The Need for Expansion (2) Summary of FY93 Budget 2. Formulating Guidelines on Industrial S&T R&D, etc. (1) Formulation of Guidelines on Industrial S&T R&D (2) History and Creative Application of Industrial Technology 3. Formulation of a Five-Year Plan for Maintenance of MITI Research Facilities B. Expanding Basic, Creative Research, etc. 1. Establishment of the Industrial S&T Frontier Program (ISTF) 2. Comprehensive Energy/Environmental Technology Development Promotion Projects (New Sunshine Projects) 3. Promotion of R&D of Medical Equipment and Equipment for the Elderly and Disabled 4. Promotion of Basic Standards Research 5. Support of Technology Base Maintenance (1) Promotion of Private-Sector R&D (2) Support from the Japan Key Technology Center (3) Maintenance of the Base for Basic Research and Promotion of R&D Relating to DNA Analysis C. Promotion of Industrial Science and Technology Development 1. Radical Augmentation of Energy/Environment Technology Development (1) Comprehensive Energy/Environmental Technology Development Promotion Projects (New Sunshine Projects) (2) Promotion of Practical Technology for Rationalizing Energy Usage (3) Development of Clean Coal Technology (4) Promotion of Global Environmental Industrial Technology (5) Development of Systems for Using Data from Global Environmental Observation Satellites (6) Accelerating the Development of CFC Substitutes 2. Augmenting the Development of Technology for Realizing a Comfortable Way of Life (1) Promotion of the 21st Century Housing Development Project (2) Promotion of R&D of Equipment and Technology for Medical Treatment and for the Elderly and Disabled (3) Promotion of the Mellow Society Concept (4) Promotion of Safety Base Maintenance 3. Promotion of Information-Related Technology Development (1) Promotion of New Information Processing Technology Development (Fourth-Generation Computers) (2) Creating the Foundation for Fifth-Generation Computer Technology Research 4. Promotion of Small-Business Technology Development (1) Development of Technology for Overcoming Labor Shortages in Small Firms (2) Promoting Small Businesses' Coping with the Energy Environment 5. Promotion of Important Regional Technology Development D. International Contributions Based on Industrial S&T 1. Comprehensive Promotion of International Research Cooperation 2. Promotion of International Joint Research (1) Promotion of the Human Frontier Science Program (2) Promotion of International Joint Research Assistance Efforts (3) Promotion of International Joint IMS (Intelligent Manufacturing System) Research Efforts (4) Promotion of International Joint Aircraft Development (Including a Propulsion System for Supersonic Transport) (5) Development of Unmanned Space Experimental System, etc. 3. Facilitating Technology Transfer (1) Expanding International Energy/Environmental Cooperation (Green Aid Plan) (2) Research Cooperation Efforts Ministry of Transport A. Overview B. Research at Major Research Institutes 1. Research on Structural Safety Evaluation To Accommodate Lighter-Weight Ships 2. Research on Aircraft Monitoring Methods for Shorter Vertical Control Intervals 3. Research on Advanced Earthquake-Resistant Design Methods for Seaside Facilities To Withstand Strong Earthquakes Directly Beneath Tokyo 4. Research on Technology for Evaluating the Safety of Advanced Urban Railway Transit Systems 5. Research on Advanced Technology for Predicting Global Warming 6. Research on Methods of Platform Testing ABS-Equipped Large Vehicles 7. Research on the Application of NO<inf> x</inf> -Reduction Technology to Medium-Weight Gasoline Tank Trucks 8. Research on Advanced Methods of Identifying Trace Amounts of Lubricating Oil 9. Research on Technology for Utilizing Human Perception and Sensory Functions in Nuclear Power Plant Operation 10. Basic Research on Foundation Measures for Nuclear Power Facilities in Coastal Regions C. Transport Technology R&D Expenses D. Geostationary Meteorological Satellite Operation E. Summary of Global-Environmental-Related Budget Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications A. Overview B. Promotion of Pioneering R&D in the Field of Telecommunications -- R&D of Advanced 3-D Image Information Communication Technology C. Telecommunications Frontier R&D 1. Super-High-Speed Communications Technology (1) R&D of Super-High-Speed, High-Performance Communications Technology Based on High-Temperature Superconductors (2) R&D of Unexplored Electromagnetic-Wave Technology 2. Bio-Intelligent Communications Technology (1) R&D of Super-Efficient Encoding Technology Based on Sensory Organ Models (2) R&D of Meta-Intelligent Functions for Next-Generation Communications (3) R&D in Connection with Biofunctions (4) R&D of Molecular Element Technology for Advanced Information Communications (New) 3. Highly-Functional Network Technology (1) R&D of Basic Technology for Super-Multiply-Changeable Networks (2) R&D of Network-Human Interfaces 4. Telecommunications Frontier Research Public Subscription D. Major FY93 Research Efforts at the Communications Research Laboratory 1. R&D of Advanced Satellite Communications and Broadcast Technology 2. Research on a Next-Generation Communications-Broadcast R&D Satellite 3. R&D of Aviation and Maritime Satellite Technology 4. R&D of Inter-Satellite Communications Technology 5. R&D of High-Accuracy Time and Space Measurement Technology Using Cosmic Radio-Wave Emissions 6. Research Involving Communications Satellite Experiments 7. R&D of Space Weather Forecasting Systems 8. Research on Communications Technology Based on Small Satellites 9. Augmenting Related Observations During the Term of the STEP Program 10. Research on Space Communications in Distributed Satellite Systems 11. Research on Two-Frequency Doppler Radar for Observing Rainfall From Space 12. R&D of Global Environmental Measurement Technology Based on Sensors That are Active in Certain Optical Regions 13. Research on Global Environmental Measurement Technology Using Short-Wavelength Millimeter-Band Electromagnetic Waves 14. R&D in Connection with Constructing Global Environmental Measurement Information Networks 15. International Joint Research on Advanced Electromagnetic Wave Utilization Technology for the Global Environment 16. Research on Global Environmental Measurement Technology Based on High-Resolution 3-D Microwave Imaging Radar 17. Development of Frequency Resources (1) Research on 40-GHz and Higher Radio-Wave Propagation (2) R&D of Optical-Region Frequency Bands (3) R&D of Technology for Intelligent and Effective Utilization of Radio Waves (4) R&D of Millimeter-Wave Private Communications Technology (5) R&D of Mobile Microwave-Band Communications Technology (New) (6) R&D of Technology for Effective Utilization of Broadcast Frequencies (New) (7) R&D of Millimeter- and Submillimeter-Wave-Band Device Technology (New) 18. R&D of Stratospheric Radio Repeater Systems E. Summary of FY93 Industrial Investment Special Account 1. Maintenance of R&D Base Facilities 2. Japan Key Technology Center Funding and Investment Enterprises Ministry of Construction A. Overview 1. Basic Policies on Construction Technology R&D (1) Automation and Man-Power-Saving Technology (2) Maintenance-Free Technology (3) Energy-Saving Technology 2. R&D Promotion Measures B. Overview of the R&D 1. Development of Technology for the Maintenance of Easy-To-Use, Beautiful, Durable, and Easy-To-Maintain Housing and Social Capital (1) Development of Technology for Functional Improvements in Maintenance and Renovation of Housing and Social Capital (2) Development of Technology for Creating Beautiful Scenery (New) 2. Developing Technology for Environmentally Harmonious Housing and Social Capital Maintenance (1) Development of Resource-, Energy-Conserving Construction Technology (2) Development of Technology for Re-Using and Suppressing the Generation of Construction Byproducts 3. Development of Technology for Maintaining Housing and Social Capital Efficiently and Safely (1) Development of New Construction Technology 4. Technology Development Involving Basic Topics C. Technology Development Incentives 1. Technology Application Pilot Projects 2. Test Field System 3. Improving the Bidding and Contracting System 4. Tax System Facilitating Technology Development D. Conclusion
