FBIS4-54460 "dreeu084_h_94002" FBIS-EEU-94-084 Daily Report 2 May 1994 HUNGARY Prime Ministers Comment on Talks Prime Ministers Comment on Talks LD0205095394 Bratislava Rozhlasova Stanica Slovensko Network in Slovak 0500 GMT 2 May 94 LD0205095394 Bratislava Rozhlasova Stanica Slovensko Network in Slovak 0500 GMT 2 May 94 Slovak BFN [Report by correspondent Gregor Martin Papucsek from Budapest] [Excerpts] Last night's dialogue between the Slovak and Hungarian prime ministers was not in vain. At least they established which of the problems were of greater importance. One of these problems is the so-called basic treaty, which contains a clause on the unalterability of the border. This is what Peter Boross said when responding to my question about whether the Hungarian side allowed itself be convinced by Jozef Moravcik's arguments: [Begin Boross recording, in Hungarian with superimposed translation into Slovak] Given the complexity of this issue and the type of talks we have had, we were unable to reach a final agreement. This, of course, does not counter our intention to examine all the issues, systematically and as a part of a consistent dialogue. But that requires a lot of time. We must adopt a realistic attitude when solving difficult issues. [end recording] Since we want to adopt a realistic attitude, the first thing we could agree on is the opening of new border crossings. True, the prime ministers failed both to define specific crossings and to set specific dates. But the Slovak side does not link this issue with the readmission agreement, as was the case until the recent past. Slovak Prime Minister Jozef Moravcik said: [Begin Moravcik recording] We discussed the readmission agreement (?before). We do not link the conclusion of this agreement with border crossings. We indicated the ways in which existing differences in views on both sides can be overcome. There is a need for more talks with other states, so that the stream of people coming from other countries, particularly from Germany, would not be halted in either country. [end recording]
