FBIS4-1413 "drafr082_cs94006" FBIS-AFR-94-082-S Daily Report 28 Apr 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA IEC Orders Urgent Printing of 5.4 Million Ballots IEC Orders Urgent Printing of 5.4 Million Ballots Efforts To Supply Ballots Described MB2804054094 Johannesburg SAPA in English 0122 GMT 28 Apr 94 MB2804054094 Johannesburg SAPA English BFN [Text] Johannesburg April 28 SAPA -- South Africa's Independent Electoral Commission [IEC] officials worked through the night to ensure that where there were shortages of ballot papers on Wednesday, the situation would be remedied by Thursday morning, IEC chairperson Mr Justice Johann Kriegler said on Thursday. The printing of 5.4 million additional ballot papers began on Wednesday afternoon and were already reaching their destinations throughout the country. Some voting stations may open a little later than expected but most voting stations should open on time and in full supply of ballot papers and other vital election materials, Mr Justice Kriegler said. He added that the IEC was grateful to the electorate for the patience it demonstrated on Wednesday despite the many hours spent by voters in long queues as they waited to vote. Mr Yunus Mohamed, a director of the election administration directorate, has also issued special urgent instructions to all district electoral officers and presiding officers. He said all presiding officers who have experienced shortages are asked to get immediately in touch with their district electoral officers, preferably before they open their voting stations, to establish when and how they should receive their voting materials. Ballot boxes had to be properly guarded. Presiding officers would also keep their voting stations open to ensure that all voters intending to vote were attended to. It was also decided that when ballot boxes were full, and if a station ran out of ballot boxes, presiding officers should, in the presence of voting agents, empty the contents of the full boxes into post office bags. Prior to the use of such bags approval must be obtained from the party voting agents present at the voting station. National Peace Secretariat Chairman Antonie Gildenhuys has been requested by Mr Justice Kriegler to second peace monitors to the 9,000 voting stations around the country to help ensure orderly access to voting stations. This urgent request will override the 500 metre restriction zone placed on monitors around polling stations until now.
