FBIS4-52868 "dreas094_c_94006" FBIS-EAS-94-094 Daily Report 14 May 1994 North Korea CPRF Denounces U.S., ROK for Military Exercises CPRF Denounces U.S., ROK for Military Exercises SK1405045294 Pyongyang KCNA in English 0422 GMT 14 May 94 SK1405045294 Pyongyang KCNA English BFN ["CPRF Denounces War Exercises of U.S. and S. Korean Puppets" -- KCNA headline] [Text] Pyongyang, May 14 (KCNA) -- The secretariat of the Committee for the Peaceful Reunification of the Fatherland issued an information on Friday denouncing the U.S. imperialists and the South Korean puppets for frequently staging reckless military exercises and committing provocations against the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. Entering May, the South Korean puppets have staged large-scale manoeuvres socalled "combined tactical exercises for the first half of the year" involving the three services in an area near the military demarcation line (MDL). They have also reinforced Armed Forces and fired bullets and shells there, perpetrating military provocations almost every day. The information bitterly denounces these moves of the U.S. imperialists and the South Korean puppets as an intolerable crime challenging pointblank the desire and efforts of the Korean nation to avert the danger of a nuclear war and open a new phase of the peace and peaceful reunification of the country. It says: The South Korean bellicose elements made public a war plan against the North they had worked out together with the United States, and have massively introduced latest-type combat equipment from the U.S. they have also massed the puppet Armed Forces in areas near the MDL and committed military provocations, threatening "a tough counteraction" and "retaliation" against the North. This indicates that their belligerent moves have reached a very dangerous stage. We want peace. But we are not afraid of war. The U.S. imperialists and the South Korean puppets had better act with discretion, clearly mindful that if they dare ignite another war, they would have to pay dearly for it.
