FBIS3-11659 "drlat057_b_94004" FBIS-LAT-94-057 Document Type:Daily Report 23 Mar 1994 Dominican Republic Haiti Ambassador States U.S. Position on Crisis Resolution Plan FL2303215194 Port-au-Prince Signal FM Radio in French 1130 GMT 23 Mar 94 FL2303215194 Port-au-Prince Signal FM Radio Language: French Article Type:BFN [Text] The United States pointed out on 22 March that it is important for the Haitian Senate to pass -- and soon -- the parliamentary plan for solving the crisis. U.S. Ambassador William Lacy Swing has warned that any Senate member who would prevent the Senate from fulfilling its constitutional responsibilities will be considered by the U.S. Government to be acting in disregard of the New York pact. Mr. Swing was referring to the senators elected in the 18 January 1993 elections, not acknowledged by the international community. Ambassador Swing reminded them of their responsibility to fully and officially respect the commitments to which they subscribed within the framework of the New York pact. This pact, made in July 1993 by Haiti's antagonistic political forces, provides for those [contested] parliamentarians to refrain from sitting in parliament until a solution is found regarding their status. The Haitian Senate is divided into two antagonistic blocs: one led by Senator Firmin Jean-Louis, recognized by the international community; the other by Sen. Bernard Sansaricq, whom the unacknowledged senators elected their leader. Only one of these [contested] senators, Serge Gilles [head of the Nationalistic Progressive Revolutionary Party of Haiti], a socialist official, continues to respect the New York pact. The others say the arbitration commitments provided for in this pact have not been respected. The parliamentary plan for solving the Haitian crisis provides for the early retirement of General Raoul Cedras, head of the Army, before a new prime minister takes office -- but sets no date for the return of exiled President Jean-Bertrand Aristide to Haiti.
