FBIS4-47287 "jpust012___94041" JPRS-UST-94-012 JPRS Science & Technology Central Eurasia 8 June 1994 MATERIALS SCIENCE COMPOSITE MATERIALS Uses for Non-Destructive Methods of Refractory Quality Uses for Non-Destructive Methods of Refractory Quality Control 927D0208E Moscow OGNEUPORY in Russian No. 2, Feb 92 pp 21-23 927D0208E Moscow OGNEUPORY Russian CSO [Article by V. A. Kononov, Rosogneupor, and S. V. Martynenko, Central Scientific Research Institute of Ferrous Metallurgy; UDC 666.76.017:620.179.16] [Abstract] Non-destructive methods of assessing the physical and mechanical properties of refractory products are being more widely used in place of destructive testing methods throughout the refractories industry and by end-users of refractory products to ensure 100% quality control. The Novomoskva refractories plant is using x-ray analysis to detect inclusions, variation in wall thickness, graphite distribution, and internal defects such as cracks and splits in the refractory components of continuous casting machines. Radio-frequency inspection methods are being used primarily to measure porosity. Various acoustical methods, such as the shadow and echo methods and acoustical emission, are being used extensively by U.S., Japanese, and European firms for specific applications. For example, acoustical emission is being successfully used to assess deformation and destruction mechanisms and heat resistance. The echo method is used to detect internal cracks and cavities and to measure wear and the useful thickness of linings in thermal processing equipment. Ultrasound is being used in conjunction with physical measurements to measure the strength of a refractory material or product. Acoustical resonance is being used at the Vnukov refractories plant to measure density, porosity, and the mechanical strength of the plate linings of slide valves. These methods are highly accurate and reproducible and enable refractories producers to effect substantial savings in quality control costs while enabling end-users to avoid costly equipment failures. Figures 3; references 15: 11 Russian, 4 Western.
