FBIS3-39470 "drweu033__a94037" FBIS-WEU-94-033-A Document Type:Daily Report 17 February 1994 ANNEX Italy & Vatican City Minister Signs Accord on Bosnian Children BR1602123294 Rome ANSAMAIL Database in English 1937 GMT 15 Feb 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY BR1602123294 Rome ANSAMAIL Database Language: English Article Type:BFN [Unattributed article: "Contri in Sarajevo on Adoption, Aid Truce Moves"] [Text] Rome, 15 Feb (ANSA) -- Italy's Minister for Social Affairs Fernanda Contri today had talks in the Bosnian capital Sarajevo on moves to start a "long-distance adoption" programme for Bosnian children and set up a possible "aid truce" alongside the military cease-fire so that much-needed supplies can reach Sarajevo by land or air from Split. In talks with Bosnian Social Affairs Minister Arif Smajkic and Health Minister Mustafa Beganovic, Contri discussed the practicalities of an adoption programme that would prevent children from being wrenched from a familiar, if war-torn, environment. She told reporters that another focus of the talks was the "aid truce" proposal, within the context of Italian Foreign Minister Beniamino Andreatta's proposal to hold an international meeting of social affairs ministers in Florence. Accompanied by the extraordinary intervention chief at the Italian foreign ministry's development aid department, Vitaliano Napoleone, Contri also had talks with UN High Commission for Refugees (UNHCR) Sarajevo coordinator Anthony C. Land, who said the Bosnian capital was at present only receiving two-thirds of the food and half the medical supplies it needs. Land thanked the Italian government for its efforts in support of the evacuation of wounded, which "Italy is implementing to a much higher degree than other countries." He said that, despite the cease-fire, aid to Sarajevo was still being held up by security problems. Throughout the day of talks, as snow fell heavily on the city, sounds of gunfire were faint and extremely sporadic. At the end of their talks, the two social affairs ministers signed an accord on humanitarian initiatives to protect Bosnian children from the effects of the fighting. The accord also aims to "stimulate the commitment of all sides to the military cease-fire", a communique said. The two ministers issued an appeal to Europe and the international community to support fresh aid convoys from Split to Sarajevo.
