FBIS4-40351 "drsov116_s_94007" FBIS-SOV-94-116 Daily Report 16 Jun 1994 Georgia Chikvaidze Signs Treaty on Economic Ties With Austria Chikvaidze Signs Treaty on Economic Ties With Austria AU1606113494 Tbilisi REZONANSI in Georgian 8-9 Jun 94 p 1 AU1606113494 Tbilisi REZONANSI Georgian BFN [Giorgi Kalandadze article: "A Representation of the Austrian Chamber of Commerce Will Open in Georgia"] [Excerpt] On 31 May, [Foreign Minister] Aleksandr Chikvaidze held a press conference devoted to the results of the visit he and Hamlet Chipashvili, head of the consular department, made [to Austria and France]. On 23-25 May, Aleksandr Chikvaidze made a business trip to Austria where he met with the minister of the economy and the heads of the foreign ministry. A bilateral treaty was concluded on the establishment of economic ties. As it became known, the Georgian delegation had talks with their Austrian colleagues on the allocation of specific credits. The Austrian side decided that, in the near future, it would send a delegation to Georgia that would include a representative from the Ministry of the Economy and the Chamber of Commerce. He will study the prevailing situation in the republic and, on the basis of information gathered, the Austrian Government will decide what kind of credits it might allocate to Georgia. As Aleksandr Chikvaidze stated, the Georgian delegation held a meeting with Austrian businessmen including the famous Leopold Bausbeck. According to the minister, Bausbeck will render assistance to the organizational committee of the "Bisec" session. According to a statement delivered at the press conference, a representation of the Austrian Chamber of Commerce will soon be opened in Tbilisi. The opening of a similar service in Vienna is experiencing financial difficulties. As regards the opening of Georgian diplomatic services in various countries, the minister stated that a Georgian embassy would soon be opening in Iran. In his view, it was essential to open similar services in Armenia, Azerbaijan, and Ukraine and also in the CIS representation in Minsk. [passage omitted]
