FBIS3-42682 "jpusr011___94007" FBIS-USR-94-011 Document Type:JPRS Document Title: FBIS Report: Central Eurasia 9 February 1994 RUSSIA POLITICAL AFFAIRS Report on Campaign Spending Violations of Election Financing 944F0279B Moscow KOMMERSANT-DAILY in Russian 23 Dec 93 p 4 944F0279B Moscow KOMMERSANT-DAILY Language: Russian Article Type:CSO [Untitled commentary by the KOMMERSANT-DAILY Economic Policy Department] [Text] Fierce election competition made the already-narrow boundaries of Central Bank's special accounts too restrictive for more energetic electoral coalitions. The specificity of advertising activities made using cash especially tempting. Strict reporting requirements, however, made it impossible to use this instrument legally. Therefore, it is unlikely that the official documentation of electoral coalitions regarding receipts and expenditures of money from electoral special accounts reflected the true budgets party finance officers operated with in the course of election campaign. By unofficial estimates, most coalitions spent considerable amounts of cash not reported to the Central Electoral Commission. By the estimates of specialists in the Ministry of Press and Information, overall the coalitions may have spent between 100 and 150 million rubles [R] from the "black cash box" on the preparation and distribution of advertising materials. This practice, of course, is just beginning to become a special feature of election campaigns in Russia. In developed democracies it is an inalienable part of politics as a whole and elections in particular. The so-called "street" (or "sick leave," etc.), which refers to large amounts of cash distributed on behalf of candidates, have been a subject of numerous political scandals in the United States. It appears that such scandals are inevitable in Russia as well. One may assume that the first signals of violations on the part of competitors will start coming to the control and audit service of the Central Electoral Commission at the time when tough interparty fighting begins in the Federal Assembly.
