FBIS4-53457 "dreas097_a_94027" FBIS-EAS-94-097 Daily Report 18 May 1994 NORTHEAST ASIA Japan Hata, Kakizawa View Constitution, Security Policy Hata, Kakizawa View Constitution, Security Policy OW1805141794 Tokyo NHK General Television Network in Japanese 1000 GMT 18 May 94 OW1805141794 Tokyo NHK General Television Network Japanese BFN [Announcer-read report over video; from the "NHK News 7" program] [Text] Prime Minister Tsutomu Hata said that the idea of universal security [fuhenteki anzenhosho], which is included in the previous ruling coalition parties' policy agreement, is generally similar to the collective security [shudanteki anzenhosho] policy stated in the United Nations Charter. He said this during a session of the Lower House Budget Committee. Hidenao Nakagawa, member of the opposition Liberal Democratic Party [LDP], raised this issue during the session. He asked Prime Minister Hata to state the similarities and differences between the policy agreement's idea of universal security and the collective security plans stipulated in the UN Charter, which include provisions for military sanctions. The prime minister replied that the two are generally similar. Nakagawa was not convinced and asked the government to indicate its position in detail. The collective security policy stipulated in the UN Charter includes provisions for economic and military sanctions. However, the United Nations has never used troops to implement military sanctions. So the Japanese Government has not yet indicated its opinion as to whether the Japanese Constitution allows Japan to take part in such UN sanctions. Therefore, Prime Minister Hata's remarks today are expected to stir controversy. Nakagawa also referred to remarks made earlier by Foreign Minister Koji Kakizawa. He asked the foreign minister if he intends to review the government's interpretation of the Constitution that the collective defense is banned by the Constitution. The foreign minister replied that he has his own opinion, but as a member of the cabinet, he will support the Hata cabinet's policy to maintain the position of the previous government. He said that he would take back his previous remarks if they are taken to mean that the government should review its interpretation of the Constitution because that is not what he meant. Since a budget draft had been sent to the Upper House, the Upper House Budget Committee held an executive council meeting this evening to discuss the schedule for deliberating a draft supplementary budget. However, the council failed to reach a conclusion. The council will meet again tomorrow.
