FBIS4-27240 "dreas104_n_94012" FBIS-EAS-94-104 Daily Report 27 May 1994 Vietnam Radio on Establishment of SRV, U.S. Offices Radio on Establishment of SRV, U.S. Offices BK2705113194 Hanoi Voice of Vietnam in English 1000 GMT 27 May 94 BK2705113194 Hanoi Voice of Vietnam English BFN [Text] As reported earlier, the Vietnamese Foreign Ministry, on 26 May, issued an announcement on the establishment of liaison offices of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam and the United States in their respective capitals. The Voice of Vietnam has this to say: The establishment of the liaison offices in the respective capitals of Vietnam and the U.S. marks an important step in the normalization of relations between the two countries. It provides both governments with favorable conditions to solve issues of common concern. The Vietnamese ambassador to the UN, Mr. Le Bang said: Relations between Vietnam and the U.S. has been developing. So the offices must meet these developments and they will not only be concerned with the MIA issue but also with business, tourism, culture, and social activities. Mr. Nguyen Xuan Phong, head of the American Department of the Vietnamese Foreign Ministry said: In general, Vietnam and America relations have been developing positively. In an interview with the BBC, Mr. Winston Lord, assistant to the U.S. Secretary of State said: Vietnam has been very active to solve the MIA issue. This promises good relations between Vietnam and the United States. Participants to the Forum on International Economic Development held in Washington, including the Vietnamese delegation led by Deputy Prime Minister Tran Duc Luong, held that it is time to start trading with Vietnam. Vietnam, U.S. trade relation will benefit both sides. The FAR EASTERN ECONOMIC REVIEW reported that according to sources from Washington, the U.S. state secretary will recommend to President Bill Clinton that Mr. (Ho), in charge of the Indochinese Division of the State Department should be appointed head of the U.S. liaison office in Vietnam.
