FBIS3-554 "drafr046_e_94008" FBIS-AFR-94-046 Document Type:Daily Report 9 Mar 1994 WEST AFRICA Liberia Benin's Soglo, UN Envoy Address New Council AB0803125094 Monrovia Radio ELBC in English 0900 GMT 8 Mar 94 AB0803125094 Monrovia Radio ELBC Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] President Nicephore Soglo of Benin has expressed gratitude to persons who have facilitated the Liberian peace process by enormous sacrifices in both human and material, as well as (?active) solidarity and brotherhood. President Soglo, who is also current chairman of ECOWAS [Economic Community of West African States], commended the United States in particular for its financial contribution and political support which have helped overcome the menace of (?various) difficulties on the road for peace. President Soglo was speaking yesterday at the Centennial Memorial Pavilion in Monrovia during the installation of the five-man Council of State. He thanked the international nongovernmental organizations for providing humanitarian aid to the Liberian people victimized by the civil conflict. The Beninois leader paid tribute to the memory of the ECOMOG [ECOWAS Cease-Fire Monitoring Group] peacekeepers who bravely fallen on the field of honor as well as those Liberians who lost their lives during the senseless fratricidal war. He urged Liberians not to allow this to happen again. In his words, it is up to you Liberians to ensure [words indistinct] never again become the enemy of love but a friend, and that anybody [passage indistinct]. Also speaking at the ceremony, the special representative of the UN secretary general, Mr. Joseph Mills, said the United Nations secretary general, Dr. Butrus Butrus-Ghali, attached great importance to the occasion. The UN secretary general observed that after years of civil strife, the establishment of the National Transitional Government was a significant step toward the return of peace to Liberia. The assumption of the office of the Liberia National Transitional Government, he added, should bring an end to the division of Liberia in separate administrations. The UN boss paid special tribute to ECOWAS for its longstanding and (?conclusive) efforts towards bringing peace to Liberia. He also [words indistinct] contributive efforts of ECOMOG for their perseverance in their mission. According to the UN secretary general, disarmament will be carried out by the ECOMOG in keeping with the Cotonou accord. He said it is up to Liberians themselves to pursue the peace process and ensure that order and stability returned to the country.
