FBIS4-43247 "drweu115_i_94005" FBIS-WEU-94-115 Daily Report 13 Jun 1994 FRANCE Commentaries View EU Election Results Commentaries View EU Election Results `Major Political Change' Seen BR1306142794 Paris LE QUOTIDIEN DE PARIS in French 13 Jun 94 p 1 BR1306142794 Paris LE QUOTIDIEN DE PARIS French BFN [Editorial by Philippe Reinhard] [Text] The first estimates available yesterday at 2200 hours based on initial tallies seem to point to a major political change. Within the majority, the list led by Dominique Baudis comes in first. However, it definitely falls short of achieving its goal as a "union" list, since it seems to have done less well than Valery Giscard d'Estaing's list in 1989. And, above all, Philippe de Villiers wins his gamble: There is indeed a place for him at the fringes of the majority. Should final tallies also confirm that his list ("The Other Europe") outstrips [National Front leader] Le Pen's, it would become impossible to ignore Mr. de Villiers in the run-up to the impending [1995] presidential election. The majority still must pay for relegating Jean-Francois Deniau to the sidelines. Not that this paradoxical result should be a hindrance for right-wing presidential contenders. Neither [Prime Minister] Edouard Balladur nor [Rally for the Republic (RPR) President] Jacques Chirac have condemned Mr. de Villiers' behavior, even though the RPR's two virtual candidates did not go as far as Messrs. Pons and [Interior Minister] Pasqua in encouraging the dissident. This morning, Mr. de Villiers' results have settled the question as to whether or not he belongs to the majority. Some may now realize, albeit belatedly, that his performance may drag the majority further to the right than would be necessary to ensure victory for one of its members in 1995. However, the major event is to be found within the Left. [Socialist Party (PS) Secretary General] Michel Rocard is doing only slightly better than Bernard Tapie [Left Radical Movement]. The failure of his "little big bang" tactics is so plain that he can obviously no longer be the PS presidential candidate. That is, unless Socialist leaders choose to stick to the rule: "One does not change a losing team." Nevertheless, since Bernard Tapie, despite all his difficulties, managed to snap at Michel Rocard's heels in such a decisive manner, the verdict is clear: Mr. Rocard is now out of the running. There will be time tomorrow to scrutinize results and compare them with those of our neighbors, since, after all, this was a European election. For the future, on a European scale, this election is fraught with information. But as far as France is concerned, and here all that matters from now on is the presidential election, the 12 June election has drastically simplified the issue for the Left by eliminating Rocard, while in return it has contributed to complicating things for the Right, except for Philippe de Villiers...and Charles Pasqua.
