FBIS4-56058 "dreeu102_i_94004" FBIS-EEU-94-102 Daily Report 25 May 1994 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA Muslim Attacks on Serbs Reported in North Muslim Attacks on Serbs Reported in North LD2605000794 Belgrade TANJUG in English 2339 GMT 25 May 94 LD2605000794 Belgrade TANJUG English BFN ["Pool" item] [Text] Doboj, May 25 (TANJUG) -- Moslem forces on Wednesday [25 March] continued attacking Serb settlements and army positions in the northern part of the former Yugoslav republic of Bosnia-Herzegovina, which was also confirmed by the United Nations Protection Force. The most intensive Moslem fire, from all available infantry and artillery weapons, was reported on the Teslic front, Bosnian Serb Army sources said. Serb Army units were forced to return fire in order to protect lives and positions. Moslem forces fired 11 shells on Teslic itself but the attack fortunately caused only damage to local facilities without any casualties. On the southern part of the Teslic battlefront, a large Moslem terrorist group was sent to penetrate deep into the Serb territory and carry out silent liquidation of Serb civilians and other terrorist actions, Bosnian Serb Army sources said, adding that the group had suffered a heavy defeat after walking into a mine field. The group left behind much of their equipment while trying to escape and take the wounded with them. On the Ozren battlefront south of Doboj, Moslem forces opened infantry and sniper fire on Serb settlements and, after massing troops in the vicinity of Serb defence lines on the south-western part of the front, made frequent and violent reconnaissance missions, said Serb Army sources. Bosnian Serb Army units were forced to return fire and prevent this kind of activity, they said. On the southern part of the Vozuca battlefront, Moslem forces opened strong artillery fire on Serb positions after bringing in fresh troops. The Serb Army returned fire, it was announced. Moslem assaults were also reported on the Trebava front. Moslem and Croat forces in northern Bosnia-Herzegovina are preparing an offensive whose aim is to cut the land corridor linking the eastern and western parts of the Bosnian Serb Republic.
