FBIS4-51504 "dreas084__a94008" FBIS-EAS-94-084-A Daily Report 30 Apr 1994 ANNEX Japan Kakizawa Views Right of Collective Self-Defense Kakizawa Views Right of Collective Self-Defense OW3004132794 Tokyo ASAHI SHIMBUN in Japanese 30 Apr 94 Morning Edition p 2--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY OW3004132794 Tokyo ASAHI SHIMBUN Japanese BFN [Text] On the issue of North Korean nuclear arms development, Foreign Minister Koji Kakizawa stressed on 29 April that Japan needs to "deal with the situation within the scope of the Constitution." At the same time, he disclosed his view that Japan needs to give logistics support to the U.S. military should the United Nations decide to impose economic sanctions against North Korea. Moreover, on the government's interpretation--which prohibits the use of the right of collective self-defense--of the Constitution, Kakizawa said: "Will such an interpretation allow the Japan-U.S. security treaty to function well in dealing with an emergency? The people need to talk about it. It is about time for us to review the issue." In this way, he disclosed his view that the people should discuss interpretation of the Constitution in a direction to approve the use of the right of collective self-defense. He made these comments during an Asahi TV program. Regarding the right of collective self-defense, Atsushi Kanda, director general of the Defense Agency [DA], suggested on 28 April that there is a possibility that Japan may need to change its interpretation of the Constitution. On how Japan will deal with the North Korean issue, the ruling coalition--while giving consideration to the Social Democratic Party of Japan [SDPJ], which attaches importance to the limit of the Constitution--reached an agreement, saying, "Japan will be prepared for an emergency situation within the scope of the Constitution." However, ministers in charge of diplomatic and security policies made comments one after another on the right of collective self-defense. It seems that they made the remarks to suggest a possibility that the Hata administration, following the SDPJ's secession from the government, will start to review the government's interpretation of the Constitution.
