FBIS3-7780 "dreeu039_i_94036" FBIS-EEU-94-039 Document Type:Daily Report 28 Feb 1994 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA Muslim Attacks, Muslim-Croat Fighting Reported LD2602155394 Belgrade TANJUG in English 1524 GMT 26 Feb 94 LD2602155394 Belgrade TANJUG Language: English Article Type:BFN ["Pool" item] [Text] Zvornik, February 26 (TANJUG) -- Fighting continued on Saturday between Bosnian Croats and Moslems despite the agreed ceasefire which became effective at noon on Friday, Bosnian Serb military sources said. In the area of Mostar in southern Bosnia-Herzegovina, the former allies are engaged in artillery duels while Moslem artillery units are firing at Croats in central Bosnia-Herzegovina in the region of Novi Travnik, Kiseljak and Fojnica. Croats are shelling Moslems in the valley of the Lasva, and the shelling is particularly heavy near Gornji Vakuf and Bugojno, also in central Bosnia. Regular troops from the Republic of Croatia are also still fighting in Bosnia-Herzegovina, despite U.N. Security Council decisions that they must withdraw. The Croatian Army launched a strong artillery attack from Croatian territory against Serb areas in Posavina, a region in northern Bosnia along the border with Croatia. The attack directly threatened the Bijeljina-Banja Luka road which links eastern and western parts of the Bosnian Serb republic. Bosnian Serb military circles interpreted this attack as resulting from the latest Croat-Moslem ceasefire agreement and underscored that Bosnian Serb forces did not return fire after Croat artillery launched attacks from the left bank of the Sava. Provocative and offensive actions by Moslem units against the Serb side also continued in former Bosnia-Herzegovina, and were even stepped up in some areas, TANJUG learned from Bosnian Serb military circles. The heaviest Moslem mortar and artillery attacks took place in eastern Bosnia from the regions of Kalesija and Olovo, where the Moslem infantry was also active. Meanwhile, Moslem units are regrouping and moving their weapons on the Kladanj-Zivinica direction. In northwestern Bosnia, Moslem artillery-infantry attacks on Serb territory, which began several days ago, continued from the region of Bihac.
