FBIS4-37076 "drnes116_v_94003" FBIS-NES-94-116 Daily Report 8 Jun 1994 Pakistan Spokesman on British Hostages in Kashmir Spokesman on British Hostages in Kashmir BK0806162194 Islamabad PTV Television Network in English 1400 GMT 8 Jun 94 BK0806162194 Islamabad PTV Television Network English BFN [Text] Pakistan has deeply regretted the kidnapping of two British nationals from occupied Kashmir and has called for their immediate and unconditional release. A Foreign Office spokesman briefing newsmen in Islamabad said Pakistan has always condemned the acts of terrorism regardless of their motivation. He said consistent with our policy, the Government of Pakistan strongly urges that the British nationals should be released forthwith without any conditions. The spokesman also urged India to end its repression of Kashmiri people and called for the release of detained Kashmiri leaders, freedom fighters and journalists for expressing true aspirations of the people of Jammu and Kashmir. The British nationals Kim Housego and David Mackie were kidnapped from the held-Kashmir on Tuesday by a group which has demanded release three of its comrades in exchange. Replying to a question about the involvement of Pakistanis or members of some Pakistan-based organizations in the incident, the spokesman said we have no information which would corroborate or confirm this report. He said there are also rumors in New Delhi that the incident has, in fact, been organized by the Government of India or some of its agencies. Replying to another question regarding the test of medium range surface-to-surface Prithvi missile by India, the spokesman said it is a clear rebuff of U.S. position and approaches which it had been trying to promote in South Asia. He said, however, U.S. reaction to Prithvi missile has been tepid. He said the United States had approached Pakistan and India last year offering a proposal of South Asia missile nonproliferation regime. He said Pakistan had responded positively to this proposal and suggested the concept of zero missile zone in South Asia. However, Indian reaction was inconclusive. The spokesman said we believe in equity and nondiscrimination on nuclear nonproliferation in South Asia and will not accept any unilateral approach that threatens the security of Pakistan.
