FBIS4-9077 "dreeu077_b_94002" FBIS-EEU-94-077 Daily Report 20 Apr 1994 BULGARIA UNPROFOR Withdraws Air Corridor Request UNPROFOR Withdraws Air Corridor Request AU2004153894 Sofia Khorizont Radio Network in Bulgarian 1500 GMT 20 Apr 94 AU2004153894 Sofia Khorizont Radio Network Bulgarian BFN [Text] The UNPROFOR [UN Protection Forces] Command in Zagreb has withdrawn its request for an air corridor over Bulgaria. The wording of the statement gave as the reason the delicate nature of the cargo to be transported. The message was given to the Bulgarian ambassador in Zagreb. According to our reporter Vladislav Stoychev, the news was made known in parliament through Nikolay Slatinski, chairman of the National Security Commission. I would remind our listeners that prior to this development a letter from the commander of the Blue Helmets addressed to the government was handed over to the Chairman's Council of the National Assembly. The letter requested an air corridor for a Ukrainian aircraft that was to carry Finnish Blue Helmets over the route from Skopje to Helsinki and back. We have a direct link with our reporter Vladislav Stoychev, who has further information from parliament: [Stoychev] Regarding the UNPROFOR request for an air corridor over Bulgaria, the parliamentary forces today addressed a question to the Foreign Ministry asking whether similar flights had taken place previously. A short time ago Yunal Lyutfi [spokesman for the Movement for Rights and Freedoms parliamentary group] informed journalists of the preliminary results of the inquiry, received from an unnamed source in the Foreign Ministry. The reply stated that -- here I quote -- hundreds of violations of Bulgarian airspace have been registered under all the governments formed since the adoption of the present Constitution. [no reference to close of quotation as heard] This evidently refers to flights not approved by the National Assembly, as required under the Constitution. Lyutfi said that at the moment the foreign minister is also carrying out a check on violations of Bulgarian territorial waters.
