FBIS4-13041 "drnes074_a_94005" FBIS-NES-94-074 Daily Report 17 Apr 1994 ARAB AFRICA Algeria More on Debt Rescheduling More on Debt Rescheduling LD1704231794 Algiers Radio Algiers Network in Arabic 2200 GMT 17 Apr 94 LD1704231794 Algiers Radio Algiers Network Arabic BFN [Text] Algeria's Central Bank announced today that Algeria had officially contacted the Paris Club to reschedule its estimated 26-billion dollar foreign debt. The same source clarified that the Paris Club debt rescheduling concerned bilateral debts which constitute 60 percent of Algeria's medium and long-term debts. The bank added that indebtedness would decrease by 4 billion dollars during this year and by 5 billion dollars over the period of a standby agreement with the International Monetary Fund from April until March 1995. (Rachid Benhelmi) reports: [Begin (Benhelmi) recording] Algeria's Central Bank statement said that the Paris Club had been contacted after signing a letter of intent with the IMF in order to reschedule Algeria's bilateral debts which constitute about 60 percent of total medium and long-term debts. They include loans granted and guaranteed by governments or creditors' governmental institutions. According to the Bank of Algeria, negotiations will start soon with international banks to reschedule repayment dates for medium-term bank debts. It is expected, according to experts, that the rescheduling of payments for bank debts would reduce debt servicing in the medium and long-term. Running parallel to these negotiations, discussions with some multilateral institutions, particularly the World Bank, the African Development Bank, the Arab Monetary Fund, the European Community, and other main bodies dealing with Algeria -- like industrialists and traders -- would take place. It is expected that these discussions would lead to clinching additional financial reserves to cover requirements in foreign financing. The short-term debts which should be repaid within one year or less would not be subject to rescheduling and their interest would be paid on time. [end recording]
