FBIS4-63310 "drsov099_h_94001" FBIS-SOV-94-099 Daily Report 20 May 1994 Moldova Snegur Denies Deterioration in Ties With Romania Snegur Denies Deterioration in Ties With Romania AU2005202994 Bucharest Radio Romania Network in Romanian 1700 GMT 20 May 94 AU2005202994 Bucharest Radio Romania Network Romanian BFN [Dispatch from Chisinau] [Text] Mr. Mircea Snegur, president of the Republic of Moldova, denied that relations between the Republic of Moldova and Romania have cooled down of late. In an interview granted to Radio Free Europe, he said that this idea, which is being intensively aired, does not correspond with reality. We will squash this idea very soon, President Snegur said. Positively assessing the post-electoral social and political situation in the Republic of Moldova, he said that it enabled the country's leadership to start a dialogue with the Tiraspol authorities. Referring to the issue of granting a special status to the rayons on the left bank of the Dniester River, President Snegur said that a possible draft bill in this respect will take into consideration a decentralization and the assignment of functions to local self-administration bodies, but within the framework of a single state, the Republic of Moldova, with a single constitution and foreign policy and a single Army and police force. Mircea Snegur said that the negotiations will be difficult, because the Dniester side insists upon the idea of federalization or confederalization. He also emphasized the need to solve all differences by political means. At the same time, President Snegur reiterated that the withdrawal of the 14th Army of the Russian Federation from the territory of the Republic of Moldova should not be synchronized with the granting of a special legal status to the rayons on the left bank of the Dniester. In the aforementioned interview, President Mircea Snegur reiterated that, within the CIS bodies, the leadership of the Republic of Moldova only participates in the discussion of economic problems and does not participate in the discussion of military issues.
