FBIS3-47822 "dreas012_d_94007" FBIS-EAS-94-012 Document Type:Daily Report 19 Jan 1994 South Korea IAEA-DPRK Talks Developments Reported IAEA Presents `Reply Document' SK1901105794 Seoul KBS-1 Radio Network in Korean 1000 GMT 19 Jan 94 SK1901105794 Seoul KBS-1 Radio Network Language: Korean Article Type:BFN [Text] At the fourth working-level contact held between the International Atomic Energy Agency [IAEA] and North Korea in Vienna this afternoon, the IAEA presented its official reply document to the letter from Pyongyang dated 17 January, and again urged North Korea to accept overall [chonmyon] inspections. Correspondent Cha Man-sun reports from Vienna. [Begin Cha recording] This afternoon Korean time, the IAEA held the fourth round of working-level contact with the North Korean side and presented a document to North Korea in the form of a reply letter. This document presented the IAEA's position on points of dispute that were revealed on three occasions during working-level discussions. The official document presented to the North Korean side by the IAEA is a reply to the reply letter of the Pyongyang authorities dated 17 January. It was learned that through this official document the IAEA stressed that it cannot accept limited [chehanjok] inspection, which the North Korean side insists on, and again strongly called on North Korea to accept overall inspections in compliance with the nuclear accord in order to recover promptly the continuity of inspections. In particular, the IAEA clearly expressed its intention to conduct overall inspections -- not only replacement of surveillance devices, but also extraction of nuclear materials -- of the two sensitive nuclear facilities, including an atomic reactor and radiochemical laboratory in Yongbyon, over which the two sides show acute differences in views. Such a position by the IAEA was conveyed verbally many times to the North Korean side in the course of working-level contacts. At the request of the working-level delegate representing the Pyongyang authorities, the IAEA presented its position in the form of a document. Meanwhile, an IAEA source said that the North Korean response to this document is a matter of interest, however, Pyongyang is expected to finally accept overall inspections because North Korea, in contact with the United States, agreed [yanghae] to accept inspections demanded by IAEA. [end recording]
