FBIS4-3076 "drchi074_k_94017" FBIS-CHI-94-074 Daily Report 16 Apr 1994 NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political & Social Beijing Higher Court Upholds Sentence on Xi Yang Beijing Higher Court Upholds Sentence on Xi Yang Hong Kong XINHUA Deputy Chief Comments HK1604055194 Hong Kong WEN WEI PO in Chinese 16 Apr 94 p A12 HK1604055194 Hong Kong WEN WEI PO Chinese BFN [Unattributed report: "Zhang Junsheng Stresses that the Higher People's Court Has Affirmed Original Judgment on Xi Yang Case According to Law"] [Text] Yesterday, while reporters asked Zhang Junsheng, deputy director of the Hong Kong Branch of XINHUA News Agency, questions about the Beijing Higher People's Court rejection of Xi Yang's appeal and affirmation of the original judgment, he pointed out that the inland [nei di 0355 0966] judicial department independently handled and passed judgment on Xi Yang case according to the criminal facts on the basis of judicial procedures. This is completely a question of violating inland laws because of stealing state secrets. This does not concern freedom of the press, nor has it anything to do with normal news coverage. Zhang Junsheng made the remarks while attending the inauguration ceremony of the Hong Kong General Publication Association. He added that he learned from news reports that the Beijing Higher People has passed judgment of the second trial on Xi Yang case. According to inland laws, the second trial is a ruling of the final instance. Interpretation of the judgment in Xi Yang's case is a matter for the relevant judicial department. We can only answer some of your questions to help you clear up doubts according to our understanding of the laws. Zhang Junsheng stated: Freedom of covering news is protected according to law in the interior. With regard to Hong Kong reporters who cover news in the interior, as long as they do not violate inland laws, it is very free for them to do news coverage. Enormous assistance has been provided for Hong Kong reporters who are covering news in the interior not only by relevant departments in the interior, but also by the Hong Kong Branch of XINHUA News Agency. You all know this very clearly.
