FBIS4-12214 "drnes066_k_94008" FBIS-NES-94-066 Daily Report 26 Mar 1994 IRAQ Chinese, Cuban Envoys Urge Lifting of Siege on Iraq Chinese, Cuban Envoys Urge Lifting of Siege on Iraq JN0204154494 Baghdad AL-JUMHURIYAH in Arabic 26 Mar 94 pp 1, 2 JN0204154494 Baghdad AL-JUMHURIYAH Arabic BFN [Report by Majid al-Lami, Nabil al-Wadi, and Hiyam Ahmad] [Excerpts] Calls for lifting the unjust siege imposed on Iraq are intensifying on the official and popular levels. These calls urge the Security Council, the United Nations, and humanitarian organizations to expedite serious action toward ending the siege since Iraq has responded to all Security Council resolutions. Chinese Ambassador in Baghdad Zheng Dayong emphasized China's principled and firm position in support of Iraq and its continuous efforts aimed at lifting the siege imposed by the states of aggression. At a meeting with Health Minister Dr. Umid Midhat, Zheng urged the international community to stop this tragedy that the Iraqi people are facing, which has increased fatalities among children, the elderly, and women as a result of scarcity of food, medicines, and basic human requirements. He emphasized that the siege has entered a dangerous phase on which silence should not continue because this is a pure humanitarian subject. The ambassador emphasized the importance of expediting the unfreezing of Iraqi assets abroad so that Iraq can buy medicines and food, and keep the ghost of death away from innocent children. [passage omitted] Cuban Ambassador in Baghdad (Luis Mas Reyes) emphasized his country's firm position in rejecting the continuation of the siege imposed on the Iraqi people. The Cuban ambassador conveyed the greetings of the Cuban parliament speaker to Sa'di Mahdi Salih, the National Assembly speaker, and his eagerness to foster friendly relations with Iraqi parliamentarians. During his meeting with Dr. Anwar Qasirah, chairman of the Iraqi- Cuban Parliamentary Friendship Committee, the Cuban ambassador expressed his appreciation of the relations between the Iraqi National Assembly and the Cuban Parliament and the willingness to foster these relations and coordinate positions at regional and international parliamentary meetings.
