FBIS4-17350 "drsov079_b_94035" FBIS-SOV-94-079 Daily Report 24 Apr 1994 RUSSIAN NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political Issues Leader Delivers `Progress Report' Leader Delivers `Progress Report' LD2404181494 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1750 GMT 24 Apr 94 LD2404181494 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Igor Belskiy] [Text] Moscow April 24 TASS--The hardline National Salvation Front does not intend to sign the memorandum on civic peace and accord, according to speakers at today's report-back election session of the Front's national council. Participants in the session demanded that President Boris Yeltsin step down, early presidential election be urgently held and the country's current political and economic course be changed. The progress report, which was delivered by the Front's leader Ilya Konstantinov, said "the National Salvation Front lost its mainstay following last October's collapse of soviets which were the backbone of opposition forces". According to Konstantinov, "unless steps are taken to put an end to the amorphous coalition of various political forces, which is exactly what the National Salvation Front is now, the movement will be doomed to leave Russia's political arena". He believes that opposition can be rallied into one force only if it nominated a single candidate for the Russian presidency. The Front leader declared struggle for early presidential election the main goal of the movement. The following debates over the report revealed that the National Salvation Front had no allies among Russia's major political forces. Nor does it have enough funds to carry out propaganda and organizational work or leaders enjoying nationwide support. Konstantinov declined to take part in a meeting with presidential aide Georgiy Satarov scheduled for April 26. The session elected a group of three activists to represent the front at the meeting. The Front's council addressed the Federation of Russia's Independent Trade-Unions, calling "for joint actions to protect the social and economic interests of the population".
