FBIS3-51273 "drlat011_o_94022" FBIS-LAT-94-011 Document Type:Daily Report 18 Jan 1994 Colombia Authorities Say Cali Cartel Has Organization in Peru PA1601011094 Santa Fe de Bogota Inravision Television Cadena 1 in Spanish 0000 GMT 15 Jan 94 PA1601011094 Santa Fe de Bogota Inravision Television Cadena 1 Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [From the "24 Hours" newscast] [Text] The Cali Cartel is as powerful in Peru as it is in Colombia. According to intelligence reports, the organization operates by bribing the authorities who try to fight them. The very few who have dared to report on them are the journalists. Myriam Ortiz brings us a report, done with the cooperation of Peru's Channel 9: [Begin Ortiz recording] According to authorities, the so-called Cali Cartel also has a well-structured organization in Peru known as Los Calenos. Waldo Vargas, alias El Ministro, is considered the main leader. He purchases drugs worth $144 million every year. Vargas, born in Colombia, is the lord and master of the Bajo Huallaga area. He has gone as far as using Peruvian Air Force helicopters to transport drugs, according to information given to the general command. Demetrio Limoniel Chavez, also known as El Vaticano, is the other leader of the organization. It is estimated that he buys $216 million worth of drugs every year. El Vaticano works with his brother Humberto, also known as Calavera, who manages the landing strips, but his main storage center is in Palma Pampa, Ayacucho, from where the flights leave for Colombia. Berta Chavez, also known as La Calena, is El Vaticano's sister, and she markets 5 tons of coca paste each month. She was arrested in September 1993, but a judge released her recently. (Luis Hernan Pineda Menjura), also known as Trompa de Buque, and La Calena were in charge of a shipment landing strip and this laboratory uncovered by police. Everything seems to indicate that this cartel's strategy is to buy the authorities in charge of fighting drug traffic. For this reason, they operate as if they were in their own homes, and the cases of corruption become more evident everyday. Major (Enrique Paez), former commander of the Zaposoa Base, has admitted he allowed drug flights to come in, while Maj. Alfredo Ruiz, former commander of (Duchisa), was caught when he was authorizing the shipment of a cargo of coca paste to Colombia. The military does not like the journalists' research. Some have been murdered; others have received death threats. [end recording]
