FBIS3-41084 "jptdd005__l94021" JPRS-TDD-94-005-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Narcotics 1 February 1994 LATIN AMERICA MEXICO PJF Counternarcotics Division Chief Assigned to National Drug Institute Replaced 94WB0022B Monterrey EL NORTE in Spanish 29 Dec 93 p 1-A 94WB0022B Monterrey EL NORTE Language: Spanish Article Type:CSO [Article by Amparo Trejo] [Text] Mexico City--The director of the Federal Judicial Police [PJF] counternarcotics division assigned to the National Institute To Combat Drugs, Jose Luis Lagunes Lopez, has been dismissed; and Carlos Santibanez Ramos, ex-general director of Interpol in Mexico, has been named to replace him. This announcement was made unofficially yesterday. Although the PGR [Office of the Attorney General of the Republic] did not publicize the appointment of the new director, Lagunes Lopez held a long meeting yesterday with Jorge Tello Peon, commissioner of the National Institute To Combat Drugs. Upon its conclusion, he refused to make any statement. The National Institute To Combat Drugs was created at the president's proposal on 17 June of this year. Its purpose is to curb drug use effectively, and to prevent Mexico from serving as the site of drug production or trafficking. The agency replaced the Drug Control Planning Center created by the ex-attorney general, Ignacio Morales Lechuga, in June of last year. Commander Emilio Islas Rangel was named as Santibanez Ramos's substitute at Interpol of Mexico, an appointment made official by the Attorney General's Office yesterday. At the instruction of the attorney general of the republic, Jorge Carpizo, the assistant attorney for local offices and inspections, Mario Ruiz Massieu, administered the oath for the Interpol post to Islas Rangel. He had previously served as director of the PGR's Kidnapping Investigations Unit, a position now to be filled by Juan Jose Valdemar Escalona. A PGR communique states: "Commander Islas Rangel's new appointment is an acknowledgment of his considerable merits in his previous position as director of the same institution's Kidnapping Investigations Unit, where he achieved great success in solving these crimes." Islas Rangel previously served as security chief for the United States Ambassador to Mexico, and representative of the Secretariat of Government in Guanajuato. The PGR reported that he was also deputy director of operations for the Judicial Police in Guanajuato, and coordinator of the Federal District Judicial Police northern zone.
