FBIS4-63949 "drsov102_f_94002" FBIS-SOV-94-102 Daily Report 24 May 1994 UKRAINE International Affairs Foreign Ministry Vows `All Necessary Measures' To Be Taken Foreign Ministry Vows `All Necessary Measures' To Be Taken AU2505120794 Kiev DEMOKRATYCHNA UKRAYINA in Ukrainian 24 May 94 pp 1, 2 AU2505120794 Kiev DEMOKRATYCHNA UKRAYINA Ukrainian BFN [Undated "Statement by the Press Center of Ukraine's Ministry of Foreign Affairs"] [Text] On 20 May 1994, the Crimean Supreme Council adopted the law "On the Restoration of the Constitutional Principles of the Crimean Republic's Statehood" having thereby made an attempt to restore the Crimean Constitution in its 6 May 1992 variant. This law is unconstitutional and illegal. It leads to an exacerbation of interethnic tension on the peninsula and in Ukraine as a whole and raises the question of the legal status of the Crimean Republic as a constituent part of Ukraine. This creates a direct threat to Ukraine's territorial integrity and peace and stability in the region. In this connection, Ukraine's Minister of Foreign Affairs A.M. Zlenko sent letters to the UN secretary general, the chairman of the Security Council, the chairman of the CSCE, NATO's general secretary, leaders of other international organizations, and ministers of foreign affairs of foreign countries. In his letters, the head of Ukraine's external political department stresses, in particular, that this illegal decision, provoked by the irresponsible course pursued by the present Crimean leadership and aimed at undermining Ukraine's constitutional power and its territorial integrity cannot be qualified in any other terms than an open attempt on the part of separatist forces to weaken the internal political stability in Ukraine and provoke tension in the Ukrainian- Russian relations. This creates a threat to peace and stability in the region and in the whole of Europe, something which may have far-reaching negative consequences, in view of the present complicated situation in this part of the continent. Today those European countries, which are participants in the CSCE, have admitted the exceptional importance unconditionally to maintain and strengthen the principles of territorial integrity and inviolability of existing borders, as a guarantee for European peace and security. Such separatist aspirations on the part of the leadership of the Crimean Republic may result in further erosion of these fundamental principles underlying European stability. In the case of a further escalation of the situation as a result of the irresponsible steps by the extremist forces in the Crimea, Ukraine reserves the right to take all the necessary measures for an unconditional protection of the state's territorial integrity in conformity with its constitution and current legislation and with an adherence to the norms of international law.
