FBIS3-26115 "drchi023_v_94002" FBIS-CHI-94-023 Document Type:Daily Report 3 Feb 1994 TAIWAN Report on Foreign Minister's Visit to Boston Explains Foreign Policy OW0302083994 Taipei CNA in English 0724 GMT 3 Feb 94 OW0302083994 Taipei CNA Language: English Article Type:BFN [By David Wang and Lilian Wu] [Text] Boston, Feb. 2 (CNA) -- The people of the Republic of China [ROC] on Taiwan believe that they should and must assume a more active role in the international community to help enhance regional stability and security, ROC Minister of Foreign Affairs Chien Fu said Wednesday [2 February]. Chien made the remarks during a one-hour speech to students and faculty of the Harvard Business School. He spoke on Taiwan's role in Asia-Pacific economic growth. He noted that the Asia-Pacific, which boasts the highest economic growth rate in the world, would benefit from the ROC's participation in regional development and security programs. He also said that closer regional economic, commercial and technological cooperation is key to avoiding political and military confrontation. He stressed that as a member of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) forum, Taiwan registers firmly its right to participate in APEC meetings and activities on an equal basis with other members. "We intend to share our valuable developmental experience with others by hosting more APEC activities in the future," Chien explained. But Chien also said that Taiwan cannot tolerate the introduction of political or sovereignty issues in the informal consultative forum. Chien said that the ROC is now devoting new emphasis to establishing Taiwan as an Asia-Pacific regional operations center, where people, capital, goods, and information can move in and out freely. In a question and answer session after the speech, Chien reaffirmed that the ROC is a sovereign nation. He predicted that when per-capita income in Mainland China reaches between US$1,000 and US$2,000 by the year 2000, their people will yearn for freedom, democracy and human rights. After the speech, Chien and his wife called on the Governor of Massachusetts William Weld. They exchanged gifts during a cordial half-hour chat. Chien also had lunch with professors of the Harvard Business School at noon. Chien will return to Taipei Friday after winding up his weeklong visit in the U.S. during which he also made a speech at Boston University.
