FBIS4-31408 "dreeu111_p_94005" FBIS-EEU-94-111 Daily Report 8 Jun 1994 POLAND Poll on Popularity of Politicians, Social Moods Poll on Popularity of Politicians, Social Moods WS0806135594 Warsaw RZECZPOSPOLITA in Polish 8 Jun 94 p 2 WS0806135594 Warsaw RZECZPOSPOLITA Polish BFN [Article by "E.Cz.": "CBOS on Politicians and Moods in May; Kuron, Pawlak, and Religa Are Leading"] [Text] According to the Public Opinion Research Center [CBOS], Jacek Kuron, Waldemar Pawlak, and Zbigniew Religa continue to be the most popular politicians. Social moods did not change substantially in May. Society assesses its financial living conditions better than it did in April. SLD Politicians Less Popular Since March, confidence in Zbigniew Religa (chairman of the Nonparty Bloc in Support of Reforms), deteriorated the most. This can be explained by society slowly understanding the change in Religa's role from an excellent heart surgeon to a politician. Confidence in three politicians of the Democratic Left Alliance [SLD] also went down in May: Wlodzimierz Cimoszewicz (by 7 points), Leszek Miller and Aleksander Kwasniewski (by 4 points each). A lack of confidence in trade union leaders also increased: Ewa Spychalska, who was opposed to the strikes (by 6 points), and Marian Krzaklewski, the leader of the recent strikes (by 4 points.) Slight increases in social confidence were reported for Leszek Moczulski, Jaroslaw Kaczynski (he continues to be distrusted the most), and Wieslaw Kaczmarek. Better Moods on Living Conditions After the April-May strikes, price rises on some merchandise and services, and a slight increase in salaries, social moods did not change significantly in May. Compared with April, slightly more people think that the situation in the country is heading in the right direction. Managerial cadres and private entrepreneurs have the best views on the situation, and unskilled laborers and farmers the worst. Close to 60 percent of those polled have a negative assessment of the economic situation (only 6 percent think it is good), while farmers have the most negative views in that regard. Skilled laborers, farmers, managerial cadres, and entrepreneurs are the most critical concerning the country's political situation. Compared with April, the respondents' own standard of living (and of their closest family members) is perceived as better (by 4 points), as well as their material living conditions (by 6 points). Managerial cadres, nonmanual laborers, and private entrepreneurs are most satisfied with their financial standing, while farmers and unskilled laborers are the least satisfied. The slight increase in optimism levels is probably linked to an improvement in the overall economic situation and to a salary increase that was a result of the lifting of the popiwek [enterprise tax on above-normative pay]. The CBOS respondents say that, over the next year, the political, economic, and family situations will not change. But what also happened was that the percentage of people convinced that the country's general situation will deteriorate decreased slightly. Managerial cadres are the most optimistic when it comes to forecasting the economic situation. The CBOS poll on the popularity of politicians was conducted between 7 and 10 May, using a 1,219-person representative random sampling of the country's adult residents. The one on social moods was conducted between 19 and 23 May, using a 1,209-person representative random sampling of the country's adult residents.
