FBIS3-8041 "dreeu041_a_94001" FBIS-EEU-94-041 Document Type:Daily Report 2 Mar 1994 ALBANIA Croatia's Tudjman Continues Visit, Activities Attends Opening of Embassy LD0103174394 Zagreb Radio Croatia Network in Serbo-Croatian 1600 GMT 1 Mar 94 LD0103174394 Zagreb Radio Croatia Network Language: Serbo-Croatian Article Type:BFN [Report by correspondent Andjelko Perincic from Tirana] [Excerpt] [Perincic] Our embassy was opened in the capital of Albania today in a formal ceremony held in the presence of Franjo Tudjman, president of the Republic of Croatia. The ceremony was attended by the leadership of this friendly country: Albania President Sali Berisha, Pjeter Arbnori, president of the People's Assembly, and Prime Minister Aleksander Meksi. Also present were members of the diplomatic corps and many citizens of the host country. Following a speech by Croatian Ambassador in Tirana Mladen Jurisic, those present were addressed by Croatian President Franjo Tudjman. [Begin Tudjman recording] The opening of the Croatian Embassy in Tirana marks the beginning of something special in that it is the continuation of the (?historical) links between the Croatian and Albanian people ever since the Illyrian times. [end recording] [Perincic] Let us remember Queen Teuta. The legendary Albanian hero, George Kastrioti, is mentioned in Croatian folk songs. This is yet more evidence of the links between the two peoples. It should not be forgotten, Tudjman went on to add, that in the former Yugoslavia under the leadership of Tito, a Croat, the Albanians of Kosovo enjoyed all rights, including their university and academy. [Begin Tudjman recording] Today, under democratic conditions, and with the introduction of democratic systems in Croatia and Albania, we wish to continue the legacies of history on new foundations and in the new situation in which both Albania and Croatia need to be the mainstays of the new international order in southeast Europe. [end recording] [Perincic] Albanian President Sali Berisha also spoke briefly. He expressed the hope that the Croatian Embassy in Tirana would serve to enrich cooperation between the two countries. He also expressed satisfaction with President Tudjman's visit to mark the occasion. He voiced the hope that the Croatian and Albanian people will continue to nurture their traditionally good relations. In this context he mentioned (Milan Suflaj), a Croat expert on Albania, killed at the time of the Yugoslav monarchy. [passage omitted]
