FBIS3-38576 "drweu024__a94053" FBIS-WEU-94-024-A Document Type:Daily Report 4 February 1994 ANNEX Switzerland 'Arafat Wants Palestinian Bank in Switzerland BR0202142394 Bern ATSA/SDAA in French 1727 GMT 1 Feb 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY BR0202142394 Bern ATSA/SDAA Language: French Article Type:BFN [Article signed rp: "Palestinian Bank: Yasir 'Arafat Requests Swiss Support"; as released by Bern ATSA/SDAA database] [Text] Geneva, 1 Feb (ATS) -- PLO Chairman Yasir 'Arafat wants the Swiss authorities to support reconstruction in Palestine and to allow the Palestinian Bank to be established in Switzerland. On Tuesday [1 February], during his visit to the Arab-Swiss Chamber of Commerce and Industry in Geneva, the Palestinian leader reiterated that 12 billion dollars will be needed for rebuilding Palestine. The issue had already been broached during the meeting between Mr. 'Arafat and Mr. Stich on Monday. Mr. 'Arafat spoke Tuesday in Geneva to more than 600 representatives of Swiss and foreign industry established in Switzerland. According to Elias Attia, secretary general of the chamber, all of the country's largest companies were represented, from construction to chemicals and banking. The Palestinian leader reiterated that his country would have a market economy, that it would be democratic, and that it would respect the equality of men and women. According to him, the 12 billion dollars needed for reconstruction will primarily be used to reestablish basic infrastructure. Forty percent will come from the public sector, while 60 percent will come from private investors. On Monday, during his meeting with the president of the Confederation in Bern, Yasir 'Arafat had asked Switzerland to participate actively in rebuilding the infrastructure "destroyed by the occupation" in the territories. "We need your support and your experts," he said. According to Mr. Stich, apart from the financial aid (60 million Swiss francs) planned by Switzerland, the talks also centered on technological cooperation and tourism.
