FBIS4-35552 "drnes106yy_94014" FBIS-NES-94-106 Daily Report 1 Jun 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS NAM Foreign Ministers Hold Sideline Meetings NAM Foreign Ministers Hold Sideline Meetings Further on Velayti-al-Shar' Meeting NC0106193194 Cairo MENA in Arabic 1810 GMT 1 Jun 94 NC0106193194 Cairo MENA Arabic BFN [Text] Cairo, 1 Jun (MENA) -- Syrian Foreign Minister Faruq al-Shar' and Iranian Foreign Minister 'Ali Akbar Velayati met in Cairo this afternoon on the sidelines of the 11th Non-Aligned ministerial conference. Velayati told reporters after the one-hour meeting that the talks were good and constructive, and that they discussed bilateral relations and the topics on the agenda of the non-aligned conference. He said they also discussed the subjects that will be brought before the next meeting in Damascus attended by Syria, Turkey and Iran at the end of July concerning the situation in northern Iraq. Velayati said he will meet with his Kuwaiti counterpart Shaykh Sabah al-Ahmad al-Sabah, and will take part in the meeting of the liaison group of the Islamic Conference Organization on Bosnia. For his part, Syrian Foreign Minister Faruq al-Shar' said after the meeting that he and Velayati discussed bilateral relations and a number of issues of mutual concern. He described the Syrian-Iranian relations as cordial and said the two countries are exchanging views. Al-Shar' said it is intended to hold a summit meeting among the presidents of Syria, Turkey, and Iran in Damascus in July to discuss ties and issues of common concern. On the Middle East peace process, al-Shar' said no progress has been made in the Syrian-Israeli negotiations because of Israel's intransigence. There is no peace between Israel and Syria now, he said. Asked about Israel's abduction of Lebanese resistance leader Mustafa al-Dirani, the Syrian minister said this is an act of piracy and terrorism. He said the abduction is a violation of Lebanese sovereignty and an act of international terrorism. He said resistance in southern Lebanon is a legitimate right which Syria supports.
