FBIS3-9599 "dreeu059_i_94013" FBIS-EEU-94-059 Document Type:Daily Report 27 Mar 1994 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA Izetbegovic Meets With Iranian Envoy LD2703223294 Sarajevo Radio Bosnia-Herzegovina Network in Serbo-Croatian 2000 GMT 27 Mar 94 LD2703223294 Sarajevo Radio Bosnia-Herzegovina Network Language: Serbo-Croatian Article Type:BFN [Passages within quotation marks are recorded] [Text] Alija Izetbegovic, president of the Bosnia-Herzegovina Presidency, today had talks with Mohammad Javad Asayesh-Zarebi, ambassador of the Islamic Republic of Iran to Bosnia-Herzegovina, about the current situation in Bosnia-Herzegovina and the relations between the two countries. After the talks Ambassador Asayesh-Zarebi and President Izetbegovic made the following statements: [Asayesh-Zarebi, in Persian with superimposed Serbo-Croatian translation] "We had very useful talks with President Izetbegovic. We are hoping that the initiated peace talks will bring peace. The Islamic Republic of Iran is pleased with the newly developing situation, [words indistinct] why it had not been done earlier. The negotiations that were conducted between Muslims, Croats, and Serbs should end with real peace. We are hoping that the borders are not going to be changed. We would like to thank the Bosnia-Herzegovina Government and the presidency since they are trying hard to [word indistinct] Bosnia-Herzegovina as little as possible." [Izetbegovic] ``I had talks with Iranian Ambassador Mohammad Javad Asayesh-Zarebi; first of all, I informed him about the last round our of negotiations, about the Washington agreement. I am pleased to have concluded that Iran also supports our efforts to that effect, which is a path toward the restoration of peace here. We also examined what Iran can do in that direction in the light of its good relations with Russia. "We also discussed a number of issues directly in connection with Bosnia-Herzegovina and Iran. I thanked Iran, the Iranian Government, and the people for their support and aid that they have been giving to our country [words indistinct]. In that regard Iran right from the outset [passage indistinct]."
