FBIS4-18881 "drweu070__a94034" FBIS-WEU-94-070-A Daily Report 12 April 1994 ANNEX Germany Kinkel, Kanther View Deportation of Kurds Kinkel, Kanther View Deportation of Kurds AU1104145194 Hamburg DPA in German 1246 GMT 11 Apr 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY AU1104145194 Hamburg DPA German BFN [Text] Bonn (DPA) -- According to Free Democratic Party of Germany [FDP] chairman and Foreign Minister Klaus Kinkel, there is "no disagreement" within the government on the deportation of violent Kurds to their homeland. The latest differences are "unnecessary," Kinkel said before journalists on Monday [11 April] in connection with criticism of FRG Justice Minister Sabine Leutheusser-Schnarrenberger (FDP) voiced by Chancellor Helmut Kohl and the Christian Social Union. Meanwhile, Interior Minister Manfred Kanther (Christian Democratic Union) confirmed that he wants to conclude an agreement with Turkey immediately on the deportation of violent criminals. The talks between the two countries have "progressed" on the level of state secretaries, Kanther said. Kinkel also stressed that expulsions and deportations are legally possible. In the first place, however, Kurdish violent criminals are to be brought to trial, sentenced, and serve their time in Germany. But every Kurd in the FRG should be aware that he will be in danger of being deported if he violates law and order. However, according to Kinkel, the prerequisite is a "clean" examination of each individual case, which is to be dealt with with "extreme caution." "Unfortunately, human rights are still violated in Turkey," the foreign minister said. The FRG deduces the right and the commitment to call for the observation of human rights precisely from its "friendly attitude" toward Turkey and its important role as a NATO and economic partner. According to Kinkel, his ministry is carefully examining information on the use of arms supplied from Germany in Kurdistan. Therefore, the last partial delivery of German armament goods was temporarily stopped. The Turkish Government is to combat the terrorism initiated by the Workers Party of Kurdistan, PKK, "but with means of the rule-of-law state." Interior Minister Kanther commented optimistically on the chances of a deportation agreement with Ankara. The interest of the two countries in the prevention of extremist actions of Kurds is great. Therefore, he also expects Turkey to be accommodating as far as promises concerning the possible observation of lawsuits and "regulations of access" to the deported persons are concerned, Kanther stated. In his opinion, "only few" Kurds to be deported are in danger in their homeland. Therefore, "with the discussion being restricted to capital punishment and torture, one loses sight of the iceberg under water," the minister said. Many participants in violent acts in Germany are "not threatened as Kurds in Turkey, not even by criminal proceedings." More consistent action than before has to be taken above all against these perpetrators, he said.
