FBIS3-38340 "drweu022__a94007" FBIS-WEU-94-022-A Document Type:Daily Report 2 February 1994 ANNEX International Affairs Bulgarian Leader Meets International Counterparts in Davos Meets Demirel, Others AU3001192094 Sofia BTA in English 1838 GMT 30 Jan 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY AU3001192094 Sofia BTA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Davos, January 30 (BTA) -- The meetings of Bulgarian Prime Minister Lyuben Berov continued here today. He had talks with Turkish President Suleyman Demirel. The two agreed that the relations between the two countries are dynamic and that the cooperation in trade, investments and the Black Sea Economic Cooperation should be further promoted. They also discussed the situation in the former Yugoslavia and the Balkans in general. This spring the Bulgarian foreign minister is expected to visit Turkey and Turkish Prime Minister Tansu Ciller, Bulgaria. President Demirel denied reports in the Turkish press alleging that Kurdish terrorist organizations were transferring their bases from Germany to Bulgaria. Prof. Berov's meeting with Kazakhstan's President Nursultan Nazarbayev expressed a mutual desire for promotion of the bilateral contacts. The two arranged a visit of a group of Bulgarian businessmen to Kazakhstan. Mr. Nazarbayev proposed that a joint bank be set up to facilitate the settlements between the two countries. Prime Minister Berov met with Greek First Deputy Minister of Economy Y. Papantoniou [name as received] to consider measures for upgrading the road and railway links between the two countries. They also discussed the Bulgarian transport minister's forthcoming visit to Greece. Mr. Jacques de Larosiere, president of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, handed Prof. Berov a list of the Bulgarian projects approved by the bank for financing. Mr. Larosiere briefed the Bulgarian prime minister on the bank's new short-term loan policy. The Bulgarian prime minister also met with Jean-Claude Paye, secretary-general of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. The two discussed the priorities in the development of the Bulgarian-G-24 ralations.
