FBIS3-18639 "drweu044_j_94005" FBIS-WEU-94-044 Document Type:Daily Report 7 Mar 1994 ITALY & VATICAN CITY Budget Minister: Political Uncertainty Impacts Markets BR0303132494 Rome LA REPUBBLICA in Italian 3 Mar 94 p 2 BR0303132494 Rome LA REPUBBLICA Language: Italian Article Type:BFN [Unattributed report: "Our Currency Collapses to 993 Lire in Relation to the German Mark -- Milan and Other Stock Exchanges Give In -- Sales Snowball in London -- Spaventa Says: `Keep Calm, The Economy Is on Course'"] [Text] Rome -- The drop in interest rates "has come to a halt," at least for the next two months. From an economic point of view, "Italy is OK" although political uncertainty will still be felt over the next two months. Budget Minister Luigi Spaventa, who will be running as a progressive candidate in the upcoming elections, entered the field to comment on the difficult stage which our economy -- jolted by turbulence on the international markets -- is currently undergoing. Spaventa made a number of statements yesterday [2 March] on TG2 [TV news]: "Regarding the lira's [L] exchange rate," the budget minister said, "I do not believe that there is any reason for serious concern, at least not as long as these fluctuations take place below the L1000 to 1 German mark level." On the other hand, relative to interest rates, Spaventa stated "the drop has already been interrupted. In fact, we have experienced a rise. I am afraid that this climate of uncertainty or, in any case, the fact that the rates have not dropped further," he added, "may continue for another couple of months." As a matter of fact, according to the progressive candidate, it is political uncertainty which is disturbing the markets most. Spaventa explained why "when it rains elsewhere, here in Italy it hails." The budget minister believes that "as [Prime Minister] Ciampi said, we are OK from an economic point of view in the areas of checking inflation and adjusting our balance of payments. If we are considered to be at risk, this is largely due to the political uncertainty which will continue for several more months. The most harmful effect will be felt, in fact, in terms of the interest rates, given the repercussions the increased cost of the debt will have on overcoming the deficit in public funds."
