FBIS3-8916 "dreeu052_k_94002" FBIS-EEU-94-052 Document Type:Daily Report 16 Mar 1994 CROATIA Hopes for Croat-Serb Accord LD1603234894 Zagreb Radio Croatia Network in Serbo-Croatian 2300 GMT 16 Mar 94 LD1603234894 Zagreb Radio Croatia Network Language: Serbo-Croatian Article Type:BFN [Text] Franjo Tudjman, president of the Republic of Croatia, received Russia's special envoy for former Yugoslavia, Vitaliy Churkin, this evening. After the talks the Russian diplomat told journalists that they discussed top-level negotiations between state representatives of the Republic of Croatia and representatives of the Serbs from the occupied parts of Croatia. A meeting has been scheduled for 22 March. It will take place at the Russian Embassy in Zagreb. Having mentioned that he had already discussed these negotiations with President Tudjman, Vitaliy Churkin told domestic and foreign journalists: [Begin Churkin recording, in English with superimposed Serbo-Croatian translation] The first thing to be done is to sign a very strong document guaranteeing that there would be no further fighting in the [UN] protected areas and around them. In the past few days we worked very hard in order to arrange a meeting at which an agreement would be signed. This agreement had been studied earlier, but for political reasons it was never either completed or signed. I hope that the agreement will be signed at the Russian Embassy in Zagreb on 22 March, but I am certain that it will not be easy. I hope that the attitude of the two sides would not be to try to squeeze out some concessions at the last minute, but to try to show that each side is the one which is being more constructive and prepared to make greater concessions for the sake of peace. I hope that the attitude will not be technical, i.e., that they will not discuss how far, for instance, a particular cannon would have to be moved from a particular tree, so that the agreement could be implemented. I hope that the state approach -- based on a very strong desire for peace -- will prevail. I am certain that this desire exists both among the Croats and among the Serbs. [end recording]
