FBIS3-31542 "dreeu035_c_94011" FBIS-EEU-94-035 Document Type:Daily Report 22 Feb 1994 CZECH REPUBLIC Omnipol Trying To Market KONKURS Missiles AU2102163294 Prague LIDOVE NOVINY in Czech 18 Feb 94 p 2 AU2102163294 Prague LIDOVE NOVINY Language: Czech Article Type:BFN [Article by "(ivh)": "Omnipol Is Trying To Sell Missiles"] [Text] Prague/Adamov--The Adast Adamov shareholding company has 440 KONKURS antitank guided missiles intended for sale in its warehouses. This information was given to a LIDOVE NOVINY correspondent by Adast Director General Jan Dosek. Adast acquired the weapons, worth 168 million korunas, as a debt payment from the Slovak enterprise ZVS [General Engineering Plants] Dubnica, which made the explosive and propulsion elements of the casings for the missiles manufactured in Adamov. Dubnica went into debt in 1992 when the Federal Army (as the only customer) refused to take delivery of an order for 900 missiles. "Payment in missiles was the only way of getting the debt from Dubnica," said Dosek. Adast Adamov has entrusted the Prague-based Omnipol company with the deal. It deals in the export of Czech weapons. "So far, we have not managed to sell one KONKURS missile," said Jiri Sir, Omnipol's commercial director, to LIDOVE NOVINY. According to him, these are weapons made under a Russian license at a relatively high cost. Sir claims that comparable missiles, the French MILAN missile and the U.S. TOW missile, are cheaper than our missiles. He said that the weapons trade is going through a recession, and, moreover, the market is flooded with antitank missiles from the states of the former USSR. "Supplying these defensive weapons to UNPROFOR [UN Protection Force] units offers us some chance," added Sir. He ruled out the possibility of a contract with any of the warring sides, however. Equipping the KONKURS missiles with an adaptor for the NATO weapon system and selling them to the Czech Army would be an extreme solution. S. Fritzl, deputy director of the special materials department at the Trade and Industry Ministry Licensing Administration, told LIDOVE NOVINY that Omnipol submitted two applications last year for a license to export the KONKURS missiles; however, his department turned them down. The reason was that the international community considers the end-user countries to be high-risk regions. The Licensing Administration has not registered any applications this year to export antitank missiles.
