FBIS4-56209 "drlat084_a_94013" FBIS-LAT-94-084 Daily Report 2 May 1994 CARIBBEAN Cuba Castro Opens ANPP Session on Economic Issues Castro Opens ANPP Session on Economic Issues Castro Emphasizes Crisis Solutions PA0205011094 Havana Radio Havana Cuba in Spanish 0004 GMT 2 May 94 PA0205011094 Havana Radio Havana Cuba Spanish BFN [From the "Evening Information Review" newscast] [Text] Cuban President Fidel Castro said here in Havana that the country will have to win its economic battle with intelligence, perseverance, and courage, adding that experts and politicians alike will have to assume the responsibility that this entails by implementing a package of measures to put the country's internal finances on a sound basis. During the first day of special sessions at the National Assembly of the People's Government, the Cuban leader said that the current situation of excess currency was created by a human policy adopted by the revolution to leave no one destitute during the special period. This, he added, has created an excess of money in circulation that is no longer tolerable. It must be solved by doing things correctly so the problem does not occur again. Fidel Castro said: We have gained the workers' understanding after the issue was discussed at the parliaments in the workplace, nevertheless, some people do not understand. They will only understand when measures follow one another and when they are able to fully realize that it is necessary to implement them. Jose Luis Rodriguez, finance and prices minister, had previously said that the measures must be adopted in an orderly, disciplined, gradual manner, adding that it will take up to 18 months to link one measure with the next. The outlined measures include a reduction in the budget deficit, a possible exchange [canje] of currency, the freezing of bank accounts for a specific time -- offering guarantees to account holders and hitting those who have illegally amassed fortunes. Rodriguez also expressed the need to strengthen the Cuban peso, to review incentives given to priority groups, to increase prices of nonessential products and of electricity and telephone rates, and to implement a tax policy. Osvaldo Martinez, chairman of the economic commission at the National Assembly of the People's Government, agreed with the Cuban finance minister but added that, in his opinion, the exchange of currency must not be considered only when it is appropriate, not as the first and only solution. The special session is being attended by 551 deputies and will resume work on Tuesday.
