FBIS4-60830 "drsov084_a_94021" FBIS-SOV-94-084 Daily Report 29 Apr 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS State Duma Delegation Urges Lifting Sanctions Against Serbs State Duma Delegation Urges Lifting Sanctions Against Serbs LD2904154394 Moscow ITAR-TASS in English 1514 GMT 29 Apr 94 LD2904154394 Moscow ITAR-TASS English BFN [Report by ITAR-TASS correspondent Pavel Kuznetsov] [Text] Moscow 29 April TASS -- "Obvious violation of the principle of equal responsibility in respect of the participants in Bosnian and Serb-Croatian conflicts leads to their exacerbation and hampers the beginning of serious peace talks." Such was the conclusion made by an official delegation of Russian lawmakers from the State Duma (Russian parliament's lower house) on the results of their visit to the union Republic of Yugoslavia, Croatia and Bosnia-Herzegovina. The delegation prepared a communique on preliminary results of the visit, which was highlighted at a news conference on Friday [29 April]. The lawmakers visited former Yugoslavia on 21-27 April with a view to working out proposals on settling the crisis. The delegation brought together representatives of all the State Duma factions. They visited Belgrade, Pale, Sarajevo (including its Moslem part), Vukovar, and Zagreb. According to the communique, Russia "should make concerted efforts through the UN framework to cancel gradually sanctions against the union Republic of Yugoslavia, which are a serious manifestation of world community's unbalanced approach to the conflicting parties." The lawmakers expressed particular concern about "actual information warfare against Serbs unleashed by the mass media." Most of the members of the delegation believe that the Russian Foreign Ministry made mistakes in recognizing the unitary state of Bosnia-Herzegovina and in supporting unilateral sanctions adopted by UN against the union Republic of Yugoslavia. According to Deputy Konstantin Zatulin, who represented the Party of Russian Unity and Accord, the delegates derived an impression from talking with UN representatives that the latter "are under tremendous pressure from NATO officers, who itch to resort to force in former Yugoslavia." The delegates will present their conclusions at a plenary session of the State Duma scheduled for 11 May.
