FBIS4-43061 "drweu113_k_94001" FBIS-WEU-94-113 Daily Report 12 Jun 1994 PORTUGAL Prime Minister: Party Maintains Level of Support Prime Minister: Party Maintains Level of Support LD1206215994 Lisbon RTP Internacional Television in Portuguese 2109 GMT 12 Jun 94 LD1206215994 Lisbon RTP Internacional Television Portuguese BFN [Statement by Cavaco Silva, prime minister and Social Democratic Party leader, at Democratic Party Headquarters -- live] [Excerpts] The objective of the Social Democratic Party [PSD] in these elections was to maintain the same support when compared with the last elections for the European Parliament in 1989. According to the latest figures available, the PSD has gone up when compared with the last elections and according to the latest results, the PSD has practically the same number of votes as the Socialist Party. [passage omitted] This good PSD result is due mainly to the excellent campaign carried out by the PSD candidates. I would like to say here a word of very high praise for Engineer Eurico de Melo who campaigned with great dignity and seriousness without attacking or insulting anyone. [passage omitted] I am not here to say that the PSD had a great victory in these elections. It is important to note that all parties lost votes when compared with the last European elections. As in other European countries, the abstention rate was extremely high: 64.5 percent. Contrary to what the opposition tried to achieve, the Portuguese people did not accept that these elections have any other significance other than the choice of MEP's [Members of the European Parliament]. [passage omitted] The high abstention rate reflects a certain distancing of the Portuguese from European matters, but it also reflects the stability of Portuguese political life. Voters believed that it was not a question of major national choices and that therefore they could run the risk of not voting. I want to congratulate all the deputies who have been elected to the European Parliament from the other parties. I hope that all those elected will work together with the government to defend Portugal's interests. Here in Portugal we can have different stances, but abroad we must all row in the same direction. The Portuguese Government will do its utmost to support the Portuguese Members of European Parliament. Last, I would like to say that tonight the Austrians have, with a big majority, chosen to join the EC. According to the figures available the backing for a yes vote was enormous. I congratulate the Austrian people. They are very, very welcome in the European Union.
