FBIS4-13454 "drnes076_s_94012" FBIS-NES-94-076 Daily Report 19 Apr 1994 Iran Holds `Fruitful' Talks With Habibi Holds `Fruitful' Talks With Habibi LD1904183494 Tehran Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran First Program Network in Persian 1630 GMT 19 Apr 94 LD1904183494 Tehran Voice of the Islamic Republic of Iran First Program Network Persian BFN [Excerpts] The director general of the International Atomic Energy Agency [IAEA], Mr. Hans Blix, at a meeting with the First Vice-President, Mr. Hasan Habibi, yesterday, referring to the reports of the IAEA teams dispatched to inspect the nuclear centers of the Islamic Republic of Iran [IRI] said: The study and investigation of the Agency's experts indicate peaceful use of atomic energy by Iran; and keeping the region free from nuclear weapons will be in the interest of establishing peace and tranquillity in the region. Mr. Habibi, agreeing with the remarks made by Mr. Blix, described global arrogance as the agent responsible for tension all over the world and in the region; and added: Tragedies observed in Africa, in the Middle East, the occupied territories of Palestine and Bosnia are clear examples of this created tension. Mr. Habibi stressed the need for even-handed implementation of international regulations in the entire region and said: The fact that some governments are, without justification, subjected to pressure of biased propaganda from every direction, while some others, including the occupiers of territories, are exempt from any inspection just because they enjoy the support of major and arrogant states, is contrary to logic and law and against moves towards peace and tranquillity. The first vice-president went on: The IRI Government is strongly opposed to procurement and application of any destructive weapons by whatever state; and it believes that the propaganda against Iran is waged to deprive it from peaceful utilization of atomic energy and to prevent Iran's socioeconomic development. [passage omitted] In an interview with our correspondent today, Mr. Blix termed the outcome of his talks with the Iranian officials as fruitful. Referring to the IRI's constructive cooperation with the IAEA, he said: So far the IAEA rapporteurs have inspected Iran's atomic installations on several occasions; and close cooperation of the Iranian officials with this Agency's representatives have been positive. Referring to the attitude of the IAEA towards Israel, which is one of the largest producers of nuclear weapons in the region, the head of the IAEA said: So far, Israel has not agreed to sign the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty. However, we are studying ways to gain information about Israel's nuclear installations and facilities. [passage omitted]
