FBIS3-9348 "dreeu056__a94032" FBIS-EEU-94-056-A Document Type:Daily Report 22 Mar 1994 ANNEX Poland Ukraine's Zlenko Visits, Meets With Officials Meets With Walesa, Pawlak LD2203205994 Warsaw PAP in English 2048 GMT 22 Mar 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY LD2203205994 Warsaw PAP Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Warsaw, March 22 -- President Lech Walesa on Tuesday received visiting Ukrainian Foreign Minister Anatoliy Zlenko to discuss ways of broadening Polish-Ukrainian cooperation and to fill the existing agreements with "concrete substance." Lech Walesa said that Poland understands problems faced by Ukraine. "Ukraine may become a great country but it must gain economic independence. And we will strive for such independence," the president said. He confirmed his earlier statements that there is no free Poland without free Ukraine and said that what we need now are actions, we should look for possibilities of close, concrete cooperation. Also Prime Minister Waldemar Pawlak received the Ukrainian guest to discuss the most important issues in relations between both neighbours. Both politicians agreed that their countries are failing to use up all possibilities of cooperation at present. Deputy Senate Speaker Zofia Kuratowska and the Ukrainian foreign minister agreed that geographical location of Poland and Ukraine was of strategic significance for the security of Europe and stressed the need for developing close economic as well as political and cultural contacts. Both sides examined also national minority questions in the two countries, with Kuratowska deeming it necessary to hold a bilateral working conference to review minority questions. Foreign Minister Andrzej Olechowski and the Ukrainian guest signed a declaration on principles of shaping Polish-Ukrainian partnership and agreement on protection of graves and remembrance sites. Zlenko told reporters that the ensuring of national security of both countries should become a strategic basis for partnership between Poland and Ukraine. In the Centre for Eastern Studies he spoke about current international situation and the Ukrainian foreign policy.
