FBIS3-33088 "drlat034_t_94002" FBIS-LAT-94-034 Document Type:Daily Report 18 Feb 1994 Venezuela Energy Minister Cited on Gasoline Prices, Talks With U.S. PA1702182694 Caracas Venezolana de Television Network in Spanish 2350 GMT 16 Feb 94 PA1702182694 Caracas Venezolana de Television Network Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [From the "The News" newscast] [Text] Energy and Mines Minister Edwin Jose Arrieta today dismissed the possibility of any increase whatsoever in gasoline prices. Nevertheless, he said that ultimately any decision will be the Venezuelan state's sovereign decision to make. Arrieta said that to discuss gasoline prices in terms of a necessary increase is a simplistic way of approaching the problem. Instead, he favors reducing basic production costs rather than increasing consumer prices. [Begin Arrieta recording] We have no plans to discuss an increase in gasoline prices. At any rate, the petroleum product sector can conduct a study at any time to establish operational cost structures and so on, and at that time we would discuss the factors -- which, of course, are quite numerous -- and study the situation before adopting such a critical measure. I believe the approach adopted thus far, the thought of increasing and, in fact, having increased gasoline prices already, has been very simplistic. Many factors must be considered, such as economic, operational, and social factors. Also, Venezuela is an oil-producing country and the Venezuelan people should have a relative advantage. [end recording] Regarding the negotiations under way with the U.S. Government concerning restrictions on Venezuelan reformulated oil imports, Arrieta emphatically denied that they have failed. On the contrary, he said that progress has been made, adding that during the next round of negotiations scheduled to take place in Caracas, the U.S. representatives will answer 28 technical questions Venezuela will ask concerning its gasoline because, Arrieta reiterated, our gasoline meets the standards demanded by U.S. legislation. Arrieta also said that the country's oil income has been recalculated and in 1994 is expected to be approximately 110 billion bolivares. He added that Venezuela will propose to OPEC a policy of concerted effort and integration -- in other words, a return to the OPEC's original doctrine.
