FBIS4-31817 "dreeu116_y_94014" FBIS-EEU-94-116 Daily Report 15 Jun 1994 YUGOSLAVIA Kosovo Albanians Behind Anti-Serb Propaganda in U.S. Albanians Behind Anti-Serb Propaganda in U.S. LD1506141694 Belgrade TANJUG in English 1247 GMT 15 Jun 94 LD1506141694 Belgrade TANJUG English BFN [Text] Pristina, June 15 (TANJUG)--The review of ethnic Albanians in Kosovo and Metohija (KosMet), KOHA, confirmed that the Albanian separatists in this Serbian province spent large amounts of money in the U.S. to finance anti-Serb campaigns and appearances in the U.S. media to market their ideas on the secession of KosMet. KOHA wrote that Bujar Bukoshi, one of the leaders of the national minority in KosMet, paid in the second part of last year to the U.S. public relations firm Rudder Finn 230,141 dollars to arrange for him to meet U.S. officials and to appear in the media. The text goes on to assess that the "results of these fat payments are scant", and in illustration notes that Bukoshi paid heavily for a five-minute interview on CNN, but that the effect was small. A strong separatist movement of part of the ethnic Albanian minority was active in KosMet for over two decades. It urges secession of this Serbian province and its joining to the neighbouring Albania. The separatists' leadership three years ago unconstitutionally and illegally proclaimed this Serbian province as "Republic of Kosovo" and formed illegal organs of authority thus boycotting the legitimate authorities of the Republic of Serbia. Among other things, the secessionists formed their own illegal "government", headed by self-proclaimed Prime Minister Bukoshi. KOHA also revealed that Croatia and the Bosnian Moslem leadership in Bosnia-Herzegovina too paid Rudder Finn to spread anti-Serb propaganda. Of the total amount of money paid to Rudder Finn by the former Yugoslav Republics of Croatia and Bosnia-Herzegovina and the Serbian province of KosMet, two-thirds came from the KosMet Albanians, KOHA claims. Apart from Rudder Finn, the Albanian separatists, as KOHA says, engaged and paid for the same type of services also to U.S. law firm Arnold and Porter. KOHA adds that the funds for the anti-Serb propaganda campaign abroad and for covering travel expenses of the ethnic Albanian separatist leaders were taken from the 3 percent tax on any transactions the separatists' leadership made their co-nationals in KosMet pay under threat. And while the people were having a hard time setting aside the money for this tax, others were squandering it on sterile contacts, such as the ones the Rudder Finn arranged, KOHA concludes.
