FBIS4-19774 "drweu078_p_94003" FBIS-WEU-94-078 Daily Report 19 Apr 1994 GREECE PASOK Congress May Cause Cabinet Reshuffle PASOK Congress May Cause Cabinet Reshuffle NC2204110294 Athens ELEVTHEROTIPIA in Greek 19 Apr 94 p 4 NC2204110294 Athens ELEVTHEROTIPIA Greek BFN [Report by Y. Karelias] [Excerpts] The outcome of the PASOK [Panhellenic Socialist Movement] congress will set in motion a series of developments and at the same time clarify the terms of the game that Prime Minister Andreas Papandreou will be expected to play when he jumps over to the Presidency and abandons the leadership of the party he established. The PASOK Central Committee will confer immediately after Easter to elect a new secretary and a new Executive Office. This means: Changes -- If Akis Tsokhatzopoulos chooses to stay with the party, he must resign his post as interior minister. Yesterday he said: "I have been with the party for 20 years and I feel at home." Close associates believe he will choose the position of secretary. According to the same associates, Papandreou will support him. -- A Cabinet reshuffle will follow because there will be a vacancy at the Interior Ministry and possibly in other ministries if Papandreou decides that others--except Tsokhatzopoulos--must stay only with the party. With the revision of the PASOK Constitution the day before yesterday, at least nine of the 19 members cannot be ministers. Information has it that Konstandinos Simitis and Yerasimos Arsenis are not expected to leave their ministries, while it is not known what will happen with Theodhoros Pangalos, who shot up to the Central Committee's second slot after Yeoryios Yenimatas. [passage omitted] The governing party is directly interest in electing a secretary and an Executive Office. If Tsokhatzopoulos is a candidate and has Papandreou's support, then there may be no second candidacy, although many who want the position do not reveal their intentions. If Tsokhatzopoulos decides to stay with the government or if the prime minister does not support him openly for the position of secretary, other members of the party will surely contest the top slot. Kostas Laliotis said yesterday that "Akis [Tsokhatzopoulos] has the first word. He must evaluate the facts and make his decisions." Asked whether he would have preferred the position of secretary or a ministry, Dhimitrios Tsovolas said: "The position of secretary--to upgrade the party." Theodhoros Pangalos appears to be "indifferent." He said that he wanted to get elected to the Central Committee but had no interest in the position. No one knows what he will do at the meeting. Besides, it is well known that Pangalos is one of the few Executive Office members who was elected to the Central Committee without being proposed by Papandreou. [passage omitted]
