FBIS3-35503 "drnes038_l_94015" FBIS-NES-94-038 Document Type:Daily Report 25 Feb 1994 ISRAEL Reaction From Various Leaders, Groups Noted `Political Establishment' Condemns Event TA2502075294 Jerusalem Qol Yisra'el in Hebrew 0700 GMT 25 Feb 94 TA2502075294 Jerusalem Qol Yisra'el Language: Hebrew Article Type:BFN [Text] The entire spectrum of the Israeli political establishment, both right-wing and left-wing parties, have condemned the bloodshed in Hebron. Minister Binyamin Ben-Eli'ezer called on Yasir 'Arafat to take steps to calm the Arab public and not inflame passions. Ben-Eli'ezer called for the rapid separation of religious fanatics from both sides, noting that he feared that there were additional extreme right-wing lunatics who were capable of perpetrating such deeds. Minister 'Uzi Bar'am said that whoever was responsible for this crime, which put the Jewish people to shame, would receive their just comeuppance in witnessing the rapid promotion of the peace process and the division of Eretz Yisra'el between the Palestinian and Jewish peoples. Minister Ya'ir Tzaban said that if any connection is proved between the shooter and the Kahana Hay organization or the Committee for Security on the Roads then immediate action must be taken to legally ban these organizations. Likud Chairman Binyamin Netanyahu said that the way to fight Arab terrorism is not through waging Jewish terrorism, which is totally unacceptable. Tzomet Chairman Refa'el Eytan said that the criminal behavior of the shooter is a mortal blow to the settlers in Judaea, Samaria, and the Gaza Strip. Knesset Member [MK] Ra'anan Kohen said that this serious incident necessitates the immediate convening, even today, of the Knesset's Foreign Affairs and Defense Committee. Moledet leader Rehav'am Ze'evi condemned the murder of innocent people in Hebron. The reactions of the political establishment were reported by our correspondent Hayim Hecht. Tzvi Katzover, the head of the Qiryat Arba' local council, said that the vast majority of Qiryat Arba' residents condemn the massacre and are shocked by the murder of innocent people.
