FBIS4-28011 "dreas110__a94004" FBIS-EAS-94-010-A Daily Report 8 Jun 1994 ANNEX Japan SDPJ, Others Criticize Tokyo's Nuclear Stand SDPJ, Others Criticize Tokyo's Nuclear Stand OW0806043294 Tokyo Nikkei Telecom Database in Japanese 8 Jun 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY OW0806043294 Tokyo Nikkei Telecom Database Japanese BFN [From NIHON KEIZAI SHIMBUN 8 June Morning Edition] [Text] On 7 June, the Social Democratic Party of Japan [SDPJ] issued a statement by Chairman Tomiichi Murayama criticizing the government's position paper submitted to the International Court of Justice which expresses the view that "the use of nuclear weapons does not violate international law." The statement claims the use of nuclear arms "is a violation of international law, and runs counter to humanism." Sakigake [Harbinger Party], Group Seiun, and Minshu no Kaze [Wind of Democracy] also issued an emergency statement, saying: "From the standpoint of the only atomic-bombed country in the world, Japan should actively argue the use of nuclear arms is highly illegal." All parties strongly demand that the government revise the position paper. Murayama's statement, quoting the 1961 UN General Assembly Resolution banning the use of nuclear weapons, emphasizes: "Nuclear arms are weapons of indiscriminate, mass destruction which affect even noncombatants. The illegality of using such weapons is evident under existing international treaties." The statement further points out: 1) Such a position is an affront to the sentiments of atomic bomb victims in Hiroshima and Nagasaki, and to the Japanese people who demand the extinction of nuclear weapons; and 2) a negative attitude on the nuclear issue will seriously jeopardize the legitimacy of Japanese diplomacy at a time when the DPRK's (North Korea) suspected development of nuclear devices is a burning issue. It asks the government to reconsider its position. The statement issued by Sakigake and the other groups says: "To claim this is not illegal merely because there are no actual provisions on it in international law is inappropriate in view of ongoing efforts to gradually institutionalize international law to adapt to the needs of the times." The "Goken Liberal no Kai [Liberals' Association for Safeguarding the Constitution]" in the House of Councillors also criticized the government's position paper for "having no international sense at all." It has issued a statement asking that the document be rescinded.
