FBIS4-52792 "dreas093_n_94010" FBIS-EAS-94-093 Daily Report 12 May 1994 Vietnam Development of Africa, Middle East Ties Reviewed Development of Africa, Middle East Ties Reviewed BK1205121894 Hanoi Voice of Vietnam in English 1000 GMT 12 May 94 BK1205121894 Hanoi Voice of Vietnam English BFN [Station commentary] [Text] Vice Premier Nguyen Khanh this week left for an official visit to Syria and Egypt. Meanwhile, Vice President Nguyen Thi Binh has been in South Africa to attend the swearing-in ceremony of the new South African president, Nelson Mandela. These diplomatic activities show relations between Vietnam and countries in Africa and the Middle East are developing positively. Here is our comments on these events: Due to geographic difficulties, relations between Vietnam and countries in Africa and the Middle East have not developed, though the peoples in that region offered support towards the national liberation struggle of the Vietnamese people in the past as well as in national construction at present. Those geographical obstacles are now less difficult. Many countries in that region have invited Vietnamese leaders to pay working visits. In response to their warm sentiments, in March Vice President Nguyen Thi Binh led a Vietnamese delegation to visit Algeria, Guinea, and Mali. Vietnam signed with those three countries agreements on economic, cultural, scientific and technological, and trade cooperation. At the end of last week, Vice President Nguyen Thi Binh left for South Africa to attend the swearing-in ceremony of President Nelson Mandela. There, she met leaders of African countries and affirmed Vietnam's determination to strengthen cooperative ties with them, particularly with the new South Africa. In the Middle East, with the current visit by Vice Premier Nguyen Khanh to Syria and Egypt, new prospects in cooperation have been opened up. Trade agreements have been signed between Vietnam and Syria and Egypt. Vietnam now has expanded its relations with all regions in the world. It has genuinely integrated into the international community. Vietnam's foreign policy to befriend all countries in the world and its achievement in the current economic renovation are keys to Vietnam's successes.
