FBIS3-38281 "drweu021_i_94003" FBIS-WEU-94-021 Document Type:Daily Report 1 Feb 1994 FRANCE Leotard Meets Generals; Restricts Bosnian Comments BR0102130594 Paris LIBERATION in French 1 Feb 94 p 44 BR0102130594 Paris LIBERATION Language: French Article Type:BFN [Report signed "D. Gd.": "Leotard Calls Talkative Generals to Order"] [Text] Defense Minister Leotard wants to avoid the pronouncement of any controversial statements by French military officials on the situation in former Yugoslavia. This was without doubt the purpose of his meeting at the Defense Ministry yesterday with the "chief commanders" of the Army -- some 20 four- to five-star generals, including General Bertrand de La Presle, who is to replace General Cot as leader of the UNPROFOR's [UN Protection Forces] blue helmets in late March. The Defense Ministry declared yesterday that the aim of this exceptional meeting was to explain to the military authorities "under which conditions" General Bertrand de La Presle will succeed General Cot, the provisions of the latter's mandate, and why (Francois Leotard -- LIBERATION editor's note) would like Cot to refrain from talking henceforth. Although General Cot received [the Ministry's] support on the basic points of his criticism of the United Nations, he nevertheless was firmly instructed to calm down. He has been forbidden from giving interviews to the French press for a week. And since the first criticisms by Sarajevo- or Zagreb-based Blue Helmets of the United Nations one month ago, all French officers with responsibilities for the former Yugoslavia need a formal authorization from the Army chief of staff to answer journalists' questions. Last week, while strongly criticizing the United Nations, Francois Leotard said that "flag officers sometimes talk too much and too often." Thus far, none of France's active flag officers, the majority of whom concur with General Cot's analyses, have publicly commented on the subject. But Francois Leotard probably thinks that prevention is better than a cure.
