FBIS3-33296 "drlat035_m_94007" FBIS-LAT-94-035 Document Type:Daily Report 22 Feb 1994 Brazil Minister Confirms Embraer Auction Postponement PY1802204294 Sao Paulo O ESTADO DE SAO PAULO in Portuguese 17 Feb 94 p B4 PY1802204294 Sao Paulo O ESTADO DE SAO PAULO Language: Portuguese Article Type:BFN [Article by Julio Ottoboni] [Text] Sao Jose dos Campos -- Aeronautics Minister Lelio Viana Lobo confirmed that the Brazilian Aeronautics Company (Embraer) privatization auction, scheduled for 24 March, has been postponed. According to the aeronautics minister, there are various problems now to complement the studies and decisions on the company's privatization process jointly studied by his ministry and the Finance Ministry. He noted: "All this budget and social function problem is strongly engulfing us." Embraer Superintendent Ozires Silva again stressed that the company's situation is very serious and requires a quick decision. Embraer's directorate eagerly views the delay and confirmation of a new date, which still has not been set. Less than one month ago, the date was moved from 25 to 24 March. Ozires Silva emphasized: "Privatization represents the only short-term solution for Embraer." In 1993, Embraer's sales were four times lower than its financial debt, estimated at $890 million. The Embraer director emphasized that it is necessary to guarantee the entry of income and manage a maximum debt of $200 million in order to again put the company on a sound footing and make it competitive and attractive for those interested in purchasing it. Nevertheless, the debt's capitalization systems still are being discussed by the federal government. The only organization that benefited from the entire lack of decision on Embraer was the Embraer Defense Commission -- No To Privatization [Comissao de Defesa da Embraer -- Nao a Privatizacao], an organization of professional associations and trade unions. This organization's goals now have been enhanced because they are part of the campaign speeches delivered by PT [Workers Party] presidential candidate Luis Inacio Lula da Silva. The Embraer Defense Commission -- No To Privatization has scheduled a meeting with Minister Viana Lobo early next week. During this meeting, an Embraer economic-financial feasibility study will be delivered and a retrogression in the company's privatization process will be discussed.
