FBIS3-48548 "dreas017_a_94002" FBIS-EAS-94-017 Document Type:Daily Report 26 January 1994 NORTHEAST ASIA Japan Division on `Objective Criteria' OW2601004994 Tokyo KYODO in English 2321 GMT 25 Jan 94 OW2601004994 Tokyo KYODO Language: English Article Type:BFN [By Antonio Kamiya] [Excerpts] Washington, Jan. 25 KYODO -- Japan and the United States Tuesday [25 January] wound up three days of high-level talks on the so-called "framework" trade accord but apparently made little headway on the critical issue of how to measure progress of foreign access to Japanese markets. Japanese officials who took part in the day's meeting said the Japanese side has proposed another round of meetings early next month in Tokyo. U.S. officials declined to make any comments as they emerged from a two-hour session held at the White House conference center. U.S. and Japanese officials have scheduled separate briefings on the framework trade talks at 6 P.M. (8 A.M. Wednesday Japan time). The two sides are supposed to draw up a progress report by the time Japanese Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa meets with President Bill Clinton on February 11 in Washington. But both U.S. and Japanese officials have admitted they are still divided on how to interpret the meaning of "objective criteria," the most contentious provision incorporated in the framework accord which the two countries concluded last July. "There is no movement at all from the Japanese side," said Marcus Noland, a senior economist at the White House Council of Economic Advisers and a member of the U.S. negotiating team. While saying there are problems "in all areas" of trade issues identified in the framework agreement, Noland singled out Japan's macroeconomic policy and access to the Japanese auto market as the "most difficult" confronting U.S. negotiators. Members of the Japanese negotiating team, headed by Deputy Foreign Minister Koichiro Matsuura, "are just repeating over and over" their positions, Noland said. [passage omitted] Japanese officials say Japan will oppose the use of any indicators, arguing that governments in market economies have no power to dictate the level of imports for specific industries. Speaking at a news conference Tuesday, Japan's Ambassador to the U.S. Takakazu Kuriyama called the U.S. expectations of predetermined market shares "unrealistic" in market economies. "The United States should understand that putting up a certain quantitative goal and trying to achieve it -- isn't something that can happen in the real business world," he said. Kuriyama, who is due to fly back to Tokyo this Sunday for consultations ahead of the Clinton-Hosokawa summit, urged Washington not to "lose sight" of the principal purpose of the framework agreement, how to make the Japanese market more open to foreign goods and services.
