FBIS3-57421 "drsov017_b_94011" FBIS-SOV-94-017 Document Type:Daily Report 26 Jan 1994 RUSSIA NATIONAL AFFAIRS Political Issues Chernomyrdin Making `Clear Challenge' to Yeltsin PM2501170794 Moscow IZVESTIYA in Russian 26 Jan 94 First Edition p 1 PM2501170794 Moscow IZVESTIYA Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [Vasiliy Kononenko report: "Fedorov May Return, Gerashchenko May Go"] [Text] The meeting between former Finance Minister B. Fedorov and Russian President B. Yeltsin, originally planned for Monday and then postponed until Tuesday 25 January, failed to take place again. According to information from the president's administration, B. Yeltsin will nevertheless receive B. Fedorov, most probably after returning from St. Petersburg, and we will at last find out how the government crisis connected with the protracted formation of the new Cabinet of Ministers is going to be resolved. As already reported, on 24 January V. Chernomyrdin went to the Kremlin and, as competent sources assert, the discussion focused not only on budget matters but also on cadre affairs. First and foremost they discussed the vacancy in the post of finance minister, a key office in the current situation. As a result of this conversation the prime minister's list of two nominees remained on the president's desk -- they are B. Fedorov and V. Shcherbakov, who is a former vice premier in V. Pavlov's cabinet. Before flying out to Orel, V. Chernomyrdin hinted to journalists that the choice must be made by the president himself. But he has already made his own choice: Either B. Fedorov, who is perceived as an indicator of the reformist mood of Russia's top leadership, is to be rejected or he is to be restored to his post. The premier has chosen the latter option, and there were significant reasons for that. Paradoxical though it may seem, they are connected with the role of the fourth estate in our society, which rose up solidly against the government apparatus' games designed to get rid of the reformers. According to some reports, during the conversation with the president he agreed to B. Fedorov's appointment as finance minister directly subordinate to the premier. Why was this? Recently economists have been predicting increasingly vociferously that Russia is approaching the point of economic collapse. In the words of V. Krivov, leader of the group of experts under the Russian Federation president, the main factor which could lead to a further, sharp decline in production, a fall in standards, and an end to food imports is the rapid rise in the cost of oil extraction, with the result that the export of oil and likewise of coal and timber will become unprofitable. V. Chernomyrdin was bound to know about this prospect, and thus he hesitated and did not want to shoulder the full responsibility himself. At the same time he has not abandoned the idea of an "independent" premier. The ostentatious "friendship" with V. Gerashchenko, chairman of the Central Bank of Russia, whose days in that post are numbered according to what is being said in the Kremlin, may be considered indicative in this respect. V. Chernomyrdin's gesture of inviting V. Gerashchenko to go to Orel is being perceived there as a clear challenge to the president.
