FBIS3-59696 "jpjst001__l94005" JPRS-JST-94-001L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Science & Technology Japan Development of Fuel Cell Technologies 7 January 1994 Development of Fuel Cell Technologies Current R&D for Molten Carbonate Fuel Cell Power Generation Systems 43070018E Tokyo JAPAN 21st in English 1 Nov 93 pp 24-25 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY 43070018E Tokyo JAPAN 21st Language: English Article Type:CSO [Article by Hiroo Yasue, General Manager, Technical Development Department, Technology Research Association for Molten Carbonate Fuel Cell Power Generation System] [Text] Foreword MCFC power generation is expected to meet the global environment in the 21st century due to its higher electric power generation efficiency and smaller SO<inf> x</inf> and NO<inf> x</inf> emissions. Many efforts have been made for R&D on MCFC power generation system since the early 1980s in the United States of America, Japan and Europe. The Agency of Industrial Science and Technology (AIST) in the Ministry of International Trade and Industry (MITI) has organized a national project (Moonlight Project) aiming for new energy systems, in which MCFC project has been promoted in cooperation with New Energy and Industrial Technology Development Organization (NEDO) and their contractors. MCFC Research Association was established in February 1988 to accelerate the R&D on stack operation, plant system and equipment, coal gasification combined system, and new materials. At present, a second-stage plan targeting the development of a 1000kW class pilot plant is being conducted. In order to achieve this target, 100kW class stacks by external reforming type cells, peripheral equipment and system control technology are to be developed and assessed by FY93. Then, the fabrication of the 1000kW pilot plant will immediately start and a demonstration test will be completed by FY97. The current status of R&D for MCFC power generation system are presented here. 1. MCFC Power Generation System A basic power generation system of LNG fueled-MCFC is illustrated in Figure 1. The system consists mainly of reformer, stack, AC/DC converter, gas recycle blower (high temperature blower), and heat recovery steam generator (HRSG). Figure 1. Basic System of MCFC Power Generation A gas mixture of LNG and steam is fed at 800°C and 3ata to the refomer tube packed with Ni catalyst on which reforming reactions take place to form hydrogen rich gas. The resulting gas is introduced to the anode and hydrogen reacts with carbonate ion from cathode through electrolyte to generate electricity. The anode exhaust gas is to the reformer and is catalytically combusted to produce heat needed for endothermic reforming reactions. The combusted gas containing carbon dioxide is fed to the cathode. The cathode exhaust is recycled by the high temperature blower to recover heat produced in power generation. Energy in the cathode exhaust from the recycle line is recovered by the turbine compressor and HRSG. Compressed air by the compressor is fed to the cathode and oxygen reacts with carbon dioxide and electron from anode to form carbonate ion. Steam from HRSG is mixed with LNG at the inlet of the reformer. 2. Demonstration Tests at Akagi Research Laboratory (Akagi Stack and System Square) Akagi 3S was constructed in October 1990 by MCFC Research Association to test 100kW stacks and 1,000kW plant equipment, for example, reformer, high temperature blower, turbine compressor, and HRSG by this September. 2.1 100kW Class Stack Operation Tests NEDO is developing two 100kW-class MCFC stacks (multiple large capacity type and rectangular large capacity type). The test is intended for the confirmation of the performance of these stacks. The target values of 100kW stacks are initial cell voltage of 0.8V at 150mA/cm<sup> 2</sup> and decay rate of less than 1%/1000 hours. Taking the test results into consideration, four 250kW fuel cell stacks will be designed and manufactured as the main component of the pilot plant. 2.2 1000kW Class Fuel Processing Subsystem Tests The tests are aimed at confirming the performance of the two newly developed reformers, namely: heat exchanger type and two-stage catalytic combustion type (Figure 2). These reformers produce hydrogen rich gas to be supplied to fuel cell anode. Heat for processing reaction is obtained by the catalytic combustion of low calorie anode exhaust gas. The tests with full scale (1000kW) capacity are now proceeding. Figure 2. Outline of Two Types of Reformer The heat exchanger type consists of catalytic combuster to produce 1200°C gas and reformer tubes. The anode exhaust is introduced to the first combuster and combusted on a Pd/Al<inf> 2</inf> O<inf> 3</inf> -ZrO<inf> 2</inf> catalyst to produce a gas of 1000°C followed by secondary combustion on thermally conductive SiC. A reforming catalyst of 0.24m<sup> 3</sup> are packed in 6 reformer tubes of 165mm in diameter. In case of the 1000kW plant, LNG of 141kg/h is fed at S/C of 3 and hydrogen rich gas of 1154Nm<sup> 3</sup> /h is produced. The two-stage catalytic combustion type consists of 16 reformer tubes of 165mm in diameter which are directly contact with two combustion catalyst bed. The tube is a dual column type and contains a reforming catalyst of 0.5m<sup> 3</sup> . The configuration of the combustion catalyst bed was simulated from physical and basic experimental data and verified by a 100kW test plant. The start up time within 3.5hrs and NOx emission of 4ppm at steady state have been confirmed. 2.3 1000kW Class Stack Peripheral System Tests The installation of the test apparatus was finished in August 1993. The performance of the newly developed high temperature blower and cell differential pressure control will be tested. A part of the control equipment and the high temperature blower are completely manufactured. Demonstration tests are intended to confirm: (1) optimum differential pressure control method between the anode and the cathode, (2) heat resistance and performance characteristics of the high temperature blower, etc. 2.4 1000kW Class Heat Recovery System Tests The full scale test facilities were constructed in August 1993. Demonstration tests will be performed on the turbine compressor for producing compressed air by means of the kinetic energy of the cathode outlet gas and HRSG for producing the steam for fuel processing reaction with recovered heat of the turbine outlet gas. Demonstration tests are intended to confirm: (1) performance characteristics and emergency shutdown characteristics of the turbine compressor, etc. (2) heat conducting characteristics, load response and startup/shutdown characteristics of HRSG. Afterward The development and demonstration of the 1000kW class pilot plant as the ultimate target of the phase-II R&D project of the MCFC power generation system will be started soon based on the interim report of the Evaluation Subcommittee of the Energy Conservation Technology Development Committee in the Industrial Technology Council, an advisory organ for the Minister of International Trade and Industry. In order to enhance our activities for the construction of the pilot plant, the research and development including fuel cell stacks development was unified to our association and the members from electric utilities was newly joined our association in May 1993. Acknowledgment This work has been performed under the sponsorship of the New Energy and Industrial Technology Organization.
