FBIS3-26685 "drchi030_w_94002" FBIS-CHI-94-030 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Feb 1994 HONG KONG & MACAO Hong Kong Official Says District Affairs Advisers To Be Announced HK1002152094 Hong Kong WEN WEI PO in Chinese 8 Feb 94 p A11 HK1002152094 Hong Kong WEN WEI PO Language: Chinese Article Type:BFN [Report: "Zhang Junsheng Says Names of the First Group of District Affairs Advisers To Be Announced Soon"] [Text] Zhang Junsheng, deputy director of the XINHUA News Agency Hong Kong Branch, pointed out yesterday at an annual dinner hosted by the Bo-Yuen (Taos) Machinery Maker Company Limited that the problem of the new airport remains unsolved to this day because the financial arrangements of the Hong Kong Government exceed the provisions of the Airport Memorandum of Understanding [MOU]. He also revealed that the name list of the first group of district advisers will soon be announced. Zhang Junsheng gave his New Year's greetings to Hong Kong citizens through the news media, wishing them luck in the new year and Hong Kong better economic growth than last year through its own efforts, as well as continued prosperity and stability. At the dinner party, Zhang Junsheng said in reply to a reporter's question: We have just received the Hong Kong Government's fourth financial package. We will formally announce our view on it after detailed study. Zhang pointed out that the airport problem should have been tackled strictly according to the MOU, and that the concerned party should have fulfilled what it was supposed to fulfill. However, because the airport financial package of the British Hong Kong Government exceeds the provisions of the MOU, to this day there has been no agreement on it between China and Britain. On Sino-British relations, Zhang pointed out that it is not up to China to decide the state of Sino-British relations. We hoped for very good cooperation on the problem of Hong Kong, but the state of cooperation has been damaged, the cause of which does not lie with us, but with Britain. Asked about the safety of the Daya Bay nuclear power station, Zhang said: Even during the construction, the power plant strictly observed the relevant provisions of the International Atomic Energy Agency. All safety standards and contingency plans are in strict accordance with international standards.
