FBIS4-685 "drafr072_c_94015" FBIS-AFR-94-072 Daily Report 13 Apr 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA De Klerk Expects Violence To Drop After Election De Klerk Expects Violence To Drop After Election MB1304194894 Johannesburg SAPA in English 1934 GMT 13 Apr 94 MB1304194894 Johannesburg SAPA English BFN [Report by Jono Waters] [Text] Johannesburg April 13 SAPA -- Although things would not improve overnight, the benefits of a government of national unity would show within six months and the levels of violence would fall, State President F W de Klerk said on Wednesday [13 April] evening. "Heaven won't suddenly descend on South Africa," Mr de Klerk told Radio Metro. He said he believed people's expectations were too high. However, a government of national unity would focus on the needs of the people to improve living conditions and the economy. "And, I think that within six months, already show some results. But it won't be wonders. It will take a year, two years, three years, five years and with regard to some of the problems even longer to really reach a much more ideal situation." He said he expected the levels of violence to fall "tremendously" after the elections. "After the elections much of the cause of much of the violence ...the strife, the high political tensions will come down and will be removed. And life will be normalised to a great extent and people will take up with their ordinary lives and their ordinary activities." However, Mr de Klerk said he did not think South Africa would be totally free of violence "for a long time" because there were radical groups to the right and left who were "not happy with the success of peaceful change and who have their own agendas". He said a government of national unity would take "strong steps" against perpetrators of violence. "We will have to fight it with everything at out disposal." Asked about the right-wing setting up their own local government councils, Mr de Klerk said it was an interesting move because there was little difference between African National Congress civics and the right's "burgerraads" [citizen councils]. "They are taking a page out of the ANC's books." The state president said the right-wingers were making political statements at the moment, but if they interfered with the business of the municipalities "firm action" would be taken against them. "If they try to usurp the powers of the lawfully-elected and constituted municipalities, they will get into trouble with the law and we will apply the law."
