FBIS4-27196 "dreas104_a_94029" FBIS-EAS-94-104 Daily Report 28 May 1994 NORTHEAST ASIA Japan Demands for Hata's Resignation Continue Demands for Hata's Resignation Continue Murayama Again Urges Resignation OW2805025894 Tokyo KYODO in English 0218 GMT 28 May 94 OW2805025894 Tokyo KYODO English BFN [Text] Tokyo, May 28 KYODO -- The leader of the second largest opposition party urged Prime Minister Tsutomu Hata to resign along with his cabinet or dissolve the House of Representatives, signaling greater resolve among the opposition camp to unseat the ruling coalition government. Hata's minority government has no other options, said Social Democratic Party (SDP) Chairman Tomiichi Murayama, speaking at the beginning of a two-day session of the party's decision-making Central Committee. Hata can choose to either have his cabinet resign en masse and establish a new coalition framework that includes the SDP, or he can dissolve the lower house, hold a general election and form a new government based on the voters' will, Murayama said. The SDP must move to return to power, Murayama said, but added it should not be understood that the party would participate in the current Hata administration. A draft action plan to be officially endorsed at the meeting stresses that the Hata cabinet opt for resigning en masse and a new coalition government be established. But Murayama's remarks emphasized a greater resolve for the holding of a general election. Murayama said the SDP should gather together "social democratic and liberal" forces centering on the party's cooperation with New Party Sakigake [Harbinger], led by former Chief Cabinet Secretary Masayoshi Takemura. Murayama hinted he would be willing to cooperate with elements of the largest opposition Liberal Democratic Party (LDP), saying there are some LDP members who seek to protect the war-renouncing constitution. He also said the SDP should seek cooperation with two ruling coalition parties -- Komeito and the Democratic Socialist Party (DSP). The SDP was the largest force in the coalition government until it bolted the alliance last month after a new Diet bloc was created by the coalition's core party Shinseito [Japan Renewal Party], former Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa's Japan New Party and the DSP. The SDP's departure left Hata with Japan's first minority government in four decades.
