FBIS3-19618 "drweu054_n_94007" FBIS-WEU-94-054 Document Type:Daily Report 17 Mar 1994 NORDIC COUNTRIES Sweden Carlsson Continues To Back Nov EU Referendum PM1803172294 Stockholm SVENSKA DAGBLADET in Swedish 17 Mar 94 p 11 PM1803172294 Stockholm SVENSKA DAGBLADET Language: Swedish Article Type:BFN [Anita Kratz report: "EU Disagreement an Argument for Social Democratic Leader"] [Excerpt] The disagreement within the EU [European Union] about its voting rules has strengthened Social Democratic Party leader Ingvar Carlsson's conviction that a Swedish referendum is not possible before November. He also supports the proposal that 27 votes in the Council of Ministers should be needed to block decisions. This is something that the government has so far been careful not to have any views about. The Swedish negotiators do not want to interfere in something that they consider to be an internal EU affair. The present rules state that 29 percent of votes are needed to block a decision in the Council of Ministers. This will mean 27 votes if the total number of votes in the Council of Ministers is increased to 90 after the admission of the new members. "I support the idea that it should be 27 votes. This would give a stronger EU," Ingvar Carlsson said. Last Tuesday [15 March] the negotiations among the EU's foreign ministers reached deadlock, and it will be a week before they are resumed. Ingvar Carlsson pointed out that we are now almost three weeks after the deadline of 1 March -- a deadline that the European Parliament set so that its deputies would have a reasonable amount of time to scrutinize the agreements with candidates Sweden, Finland, Norway, and Austria. In mid-April the parliament will complete its examination of the membership agreements. Ingvar Carlsson does not think that there is any point in discussions among the party leaders tomorrow, Friday [18 March], if the other party leaders do not realize that a referendum in June is too early bearing in mind the fact that the question of the EU's voting rules has still not been resolved. "One more meeting ought to be enough, and then we will reach a decision. I am prepared to reach a decision on Friday," Ingvar Carlsson said. For Carlsson, November is the only realistic alternative on which to reach agreement. Nor does he see any reason for concern if Sweden were to become an EU member on 1 February or 1 March 1995 instead of 1 January 1995. [passage omitted]
