FBIS4-22129 "jptot017__l94069" JPRS-TOT-94-017-L JPRS Terrorism FOUO 12 April 1994 WEST EUROPE TURKEY Illegal Islamic Group Said Behind 10 April Incidents Illegal Islamic Group Said Behind 10 April Incidents TA2304102194 Istanbul MILLIYET in Turkish 12 Apr 94 p 13 TA2304102194 Istanbul MILLIYET Turkish BFN [Excerpts] Ankara, MILLIYET -- It has been reported that the fundamentalist illegal organization called the Islamic Great Eastern Raiders-Front [Islami Buyuk Dogu Akincilar-Cephesi] [IGER-F] was responsible for staging demonstrations in several big cities, especially in Ankara and Istanbul, and stoning the U.S. Embassy, as well as the TRT, the UN, and the True Path Party headquarters. An investigation has been launched with regard to the demonstrations. Ankara Security Directorate officials stated that for the past month the IGER-F has been waiting for a suitable opportunity to promote itself and win sympathizers in all parts of the country. The organization decided to stage actions throughout the country following reports of attacks against Gorazde in Bosnia-Herzegovina. [passage omitted] What Is IGER-F? The aim of this illegal organization is cited as "changing the existing constitutional order through the use of force, and replacing it with a federal state under the name of United Islamic State, which will incorporate all Middle Eastern countries." The organization, which emerged in 1990, acts under the slogan of armed struggle for a fundamentalist order and undertakes bombings and armed attacks to achieve this goal. The leader of the organization is Izzet Erdis, who is otherwise known as Salih Mirzabeyoglu. Demiral's Confirmation Nusret Demiral, chief prosecutor of the Ankara State Security Court, has confirmed that the incidents of two days ago were directed by the illegal pro-fundamentalist IGER-F organization. Demiral said: "Our work concerning the organization is continuing. Our videos also clearly show that the persons who guided the demonstrators are militants of this organization. The investigation about them is being conducted in accordance with the first and seventh articles of the anti-terror law."
