FBIS4-49311 "drchi087_a_94002" FBIS-CHI-94-087 Daily Report 5 May 1994 INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS General Foreign Ministry Spokesman Holds News Conference Foreign Ministry Spokesman Holds News Conference Rejects U.S. Information Office in Tibet HK0505125694 Beijing ZHONGGUO XINWEN SHE in Chinese 1109 GMT 5 May 94 HK0505125694 Beijing ZHONGGUO XINWEN SHE Chinese BFN [Text] Beijing, 5 May (ZHONGGUO XINWEN SHE) -- Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Wu Jianmin this afternoon categorically ruled out the possibility of setting up an information service in Tibet, as proposed by the U.S. Congress. In reply to inquiries about this during a news conference, Wu Jianmin said: Tibet is an inalienable part of China's territory. Whatever the U.S. side intends to do there must be approved by China. China certainly will not agree to such doings by the United States. (Note: This refers to the U.S. Congress' decision to set up an information service in Tibet, as mentioned by reporters.) Wu Jianmin continued by saying: I would like to take this opportunity to point out that Tibet has been an inalienable part of China's territory since the 13th century, and no country in this world recognizes Tibet as an independent state, neither does the United States. Wu Jianmin said: In the recently adopted U.S. foreign relations authorization law for the 1994/95 fiscal year, the U.S. Congress undisguisedly called Tibet a country. It has gone surprisingly far, indeed, in despising the basic norms governing international relations, flagrantly infringing on China's sovereignty, and attempting to split China. Wu Jianmin stressed that the Chinese people had engaged in bloody struggle over a long period of time to safeguard their nation's sovereignty and territorial integrity. Without exception, all the plots throughout history which aimed at separating Tibet from China have ended in shameful failure. Anyone who intends to slip back into the old rut certainly will come to no good. China demands that the U.S. Government strictly abide by its stance on Tibet as a part of China; scrupulously observe the basic principles prescribed by the three joint communiques signed between China and the United States, as well as codes of international relations; and remedy the faults it has committed.
