FBIS3-45093 "drchi008_v_94002" FBIS-CHI-94-008 Document Type:Daily Report 13 January 1994 TAIWAN `No Set Policy' on Hainan Development Plan OW1001093594 Taipei CNA in English 0752 GMT 10 Jan 94 OW1001093594 Taipei CNA Language: English Article Type:BFN [By Bear Li] [Text] Taipei, Jan. 10 (CNA) -- Taiwan has no set policy regarding the cooperative development of mainland Chinese-held Hainan Island, chairman Hsiao Wan-chang of the Council for Economic Planning and Development said Monday [10 January]. "A plan to develop the island is just in its initial stages and the government will not make a final decision until prudent evaluation and planning can be done," Hsiao said during a joint meeting of the Legislative Yuan's overseas Chinese affairs, interior and economic affairs committees Monday morning. During a private visit to Singapore last week, Premier Lien Chan proposed that Taiwan and Singapore join hands to develop the island, which is open to foreign investment as a special economic zone. Lien noted that Taiwan investments in the mainland will be better protected if they are under the name of Singapore-registered enterprises because Singapore has signed investment guarantee pacts with both Taiwan and the mainland. Vice Chairman Kao Kung-lien of the Mainland Affairs Council said at the same meeting that the government will not engage in direct economic and trade cooperation with Mainland China for the time being. He said that in accordance with the guidelines for national unification, local businessmen would be able to invest in Hainan Island through a third party and after approval from the government. Hainan Island boasts rich natural resources, cheap, abundant labor, and holds the right to enact investment laws, Kao added. Hainan however, is also facing problems resulting from poor infrastructure, insufficient financial support and a serious brain drain. Kao said any plan for developing Hainan Island should take place after both sides of the Taiwan Strait sign agreements on joint exploitation of energy and natural resources. In related news, Hainan authorities will establish a Hainan- Taiwan, Hong Kong and Macao economic promotion association soon to promote Hainan's exchanges and cooperative ties with those regions.
