FBIS3-32886 "drlat030__a94019" FBIS-LAT-94-030-A Document Type:Daily Report 14 February 1994 ANNEX Cuba U.S. Summit Request Termed `Hegemonic' PA0702225794 Havana PRENSA LATINA in Spanish 0832 GMT 6 Feb 94--FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY PA0702225794 Havana PRENSA LATINA Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Text] Havana, 6 Feb (PL) -- Cubans consider the U.S. call for a regional summit, which naturally excludes Cuba, as a new example of U.S. hegemonic eagerness in Latin America. Washington recently announced that it wants to gather Latin American and Caribbean heads of state and government in the second half of 1994. However, it has already suggested that political considerations will be applied regarding who will participate in this summit. The conditions and the agenda for the meeting are still unknown, although various spokespersons for the Clinton Administration rushed to deny that Cuba was on the list of participants which is being drafted by the State Department. Cuban President Fidel Castro was the first one to criticize this attitude during the closing recently of the Fourth Latin American and Caribbean Conference. Many organizations and prominent persons from Latin America and the Caribbean came to Havana to attend this conference. They expressed their solidarity with Cuba and rejected the U.S. blockade against this nation. Castro downplayed the validity of a meeting of this type called by an outside power, which not only wants to decide the details of the agenda but also veto the attendance of those nations whose governments it dislikes. Actually, according to local analysts, calling for a new presidential summit appears increasingly as a plan to counter the recognition obtained by Havana within the framework of the meetings with Latin American heads of state and government held during the past years and the obvious broadening of Cuban relations with many countries in the region. By trying to exclude Cuba, it is ignoring recognition received by the island, improved relations between Cuba and members of the Caribbean Common Market, and important votes obtained in the United Nations against the isolation measures promoted by the United States for the last 35 years. Summarizing local criticisms, the newspaper GRANMA, which is the official publication of the Cuban Communist Party Central Committee, emphasized that Washington plans to hold the so-called summit in Miami, home to the most aggressive anti-Cuban organizations. GRANMA says that if at this point the Yankees want to use their "summit" against Cuba, they are too late and in bad shape. All the unipolarity in the world could not achieve such a big goal, one that is anachronistic as well as embarrassing. In conclusion, the U.S. invitation remains the object of rejection and criticism by those who view it as an attempt to basically thwart the regional integration trend, which has made serious progress in the current decade.
