FBIS3-36249 "drsov024_a_94020" FBIS-SOV-94-024 Document Type:Daily Report 4 February 1994 RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Kokoshin, France's Leotard Discuss Military Cooperation LD0302121994 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service in Russian 1045 GMT 3 Feb 94 LD0302121994 Moscow ITAR-TASS World Service Language: Russian Article Type:BFN [By ITAR-TASS correspondent Sergey Ostankin] [Text] Moscow, 3 Feb -- This morning Andrey Kokoshin, first deputy defense minister of Russia, had a meeting with French Defense Minister Francois Leotard, who arrived in Moscow on an official visit on Wednesday. At the meeting Kokoshin said that "the Russian state leadership places great importance on the development of relations with France, including the military sphere. Our relations are being developed extremely carefully, incorporating both new realities and rich military traditions." For his part, the French guest said that he was ready "to debate any security problems or crisis experienced by Russia." This is Francois Leotard's first official visit to Russia since his appointment to the post of the defense minister of France in spring 1993. Colonel General Mikhail Kolesnikov, chief of the general staff of the Russian Federation's Armed Forces, took part in the meeting, at which it was noted that close ties have recently formed between the two military departments. Army General Pavel Grachev, who visited France in January last year, signed an agreement on mutual contacts and, in particular, on exchanging military delegations, training Russian servicemen in France, and French servicemen in Russia. First Deputy Prime Minister Oleg Soskovets and Foreign Minister Andrey Kozyrev, who visited Paris last autumn and whom Francois Leotard is planning to meet in Moscow, signed then the Russian- French agreement on cooperation in dismantling Russian nuclear weapons and ensuring reliability and safety during their transportation. Francois Leotard will visit the Moscow army high command school today, meet Pavel Grachev on Friday, and visit the Tula airborne division. A Russian-French intergovernmental agreement on military cooperation is expected to be signed on Friday.
