FBIS3-9966 "drlat039_o_94002" FBIS-LAT-94-039 Document Type:Daily Report 28 Feb 1994 Colombia Army Protects Politiicans in Eastern Region PA2702032094 Santa Fe de Bogota Inravision Television Cadena 1 in Spanish 0130 GMT 27 Feb 94 PA2702032094 Santa Fe de Bogota Inravision Television Cadena 1 Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Report by Edgar Augusto Sanchez for the "TV Today" newscast] [Text] Eastern Colombia has the most extensive guerrilla presence, especially in Santander, Norte de Santander, and Cesar Departments. Despite an Army deployment in that area, guarantees for the normal development of the electoral process have not been given. The Army troop deployment was prompted by harassment by subversices of nearly 80 towns in Santander, southern Cesar, Bolivar, northeast Antioquia, and Arauca Departments. In Santander, seven National Liberation Army fronts, six Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia fronts, and one Popular Liberation Army front are surrounding towns like Barrancabermeja, Puerto Wilches, Sabana de Torres, Rio Negro, Provincia de Velez, and Provincia de Garcia Rovira. In (Chima) and (Guacota) municipalities in Provincia Comunera, where subversives had never gone before, members of the 46th Front asked local residents not to vote, and some voter cards were stolen. Political groups have begun to abandon southern Cesar Department, especially Agua Chica, in response to the violence. Nearly 200,000 members of the Army and the Santander Department police force are trying to stop the guerrilla incursion. . [Begin General Manuel Jose Bonet, 2d Brigade commander, recording] I ask the people to go to the polls and vote. The best way people can fight is to vote and show the enemies of the fatherland that society will not be frightened. [end recording] However, political supporters in the department are afraid and very aware of the few guarantees available to them as they have stopped traveling to the countryside. People here represent 60 percent of all voters. [Begin recording] [Carlos Plata, candidate for Congress] The Army offered us nine sites to land, but when we arrived here, we could not land in four of them. [Police Commander Hugo Lozano] We have provided security to all politicians who have requested it. [end recording] By increasing the number of personnel in the entire department, the Army and the police hope to overcome the difficult obstacles presented by the guerrillas during the electoral process.
