FBIS3-31794 "dreeu037_i_94025" FBIS-EEU-94-037 Document Type:Daily Report 24 Feb 1994 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA Sarajevo Mayor: Partition Would Be `Catastrophe' AU2302090594 Vienna ORF Television Network in German 2105 GMT 22 Feb 94 AU2302090594 Vienna ORF Television Network Language: German Article Type:BFN [Interview with Sarajevo Mayor Muhamed Kresevljakovic by Robert Hochner in the Vienna studio on 22 February -- live; Kresevljakovic speaks in Serbo-Croatian with simultaneous German translation] [Text] [Hochner] Good evening. Mr. Mayor, what do you feel when you see Russian troops in your city? What do you think the role of Russia could be in pacifying Bosnia? [Kresevljakovic] In my own name, I can only say that I do not see the Russian troops in Sarajevo in a very favorable light because they have undoubtedly been on the side of the aggressor over the past 22 months. It would be interesting to see what the situation would be like if soldiers from Afghanistan would have marched into Pale. [Hochner] The NATO ultimatum is two days old now, the cease-fire in your city is holding. How are the people? Has anything changed in the city's supply situation over the past few days? Has it improved at all? [Kresevljakovic] Yes, it has become somewhat easier, because you could not defend yourself against the shells. But the danger of snipers remains. I think that not much has changed about the blockade of the city. We are being supplied by air lifts, but this is not enough, neither for supplies, nor as far as the city infrastructure and transportation in the city are concerned. [Hochner] Following the NATO ultimatum, the Serbs have withdrawn their heavy weapons. Do you think that the Serbs will also open access to your city and end the siege as easily? Or do you think that NATO air strikes will be necessary to achieve this? [Kresevljakovic] This will depend on the kind of pressure. If the pressure is as efficient as this time, I think that they will also open the access roads. [Hochner] Judging by your experience with NATO, do you think that this could be a model for ending the siege in the other cities held by the Muslims -- Tuzla, Srebrenica, Gorazde? [Kresevljakovic] This is one of the ways. But this solution would also have adverse effects. By the way the situation is currently developing in Sarajevo, I see a danger that the city might be divided once there are no more grenades. We might get a new Nicosia or Berlin. I think this would be a catastrophe for Europe and the whole world, because they would have had a direct role in this partition. If there is any city in the world for which a partition is unnatural, then it is Sarajevo. [Hochner] Mr. Mayor, one last question: The war in and around your city has been going on for 22 months. Has anything changed in the cohabitation of Muslims, Croats, and Serbs? Or do you think that these three groups can go on living together in the city once the war is over? [Kresevljakovic] I would like to explain this by way of an example. My cabinet, which has four members, still includes two Serbs. And they know just as well what happens in the city as I do. This means they know a lot. But they are very loyal. [Hochner] Mr. Mayor, I thank you very much for coming and wish you and the people of Sarajevo all the best. [Kresevljakovic] Thank you, Mr. Hochner.
