FBIS3-10619 "drlat047_m_94005" FBIS-LAT-94-047 Document Type:Daily Report 10 Mar 1994 Brazil Judge: Party Receives `Illegal Money' From Italy PY1003125194 Rio de Janeiro O GLOBO in Portuguese 9 Mar 94 p 3 PY1003125194 Rio de Janeiro O GLOBO Language: Portuguese Article Type:BFN [By Eduardo Tessler] [Text] Rome -- Judge Antonio Carlos Amorim, president of the Rio de Janeiro Court, yesterday said that a Brazilian political party is being financed with "illegal money" from Italy. Without specifying the party, the judge said that it is one of the favorite parties for the October elections. In this regard he asked for help from his Italian colleagues to investigate the trafficking in money and, if possible, to stop it. Says Amorim: "Our main concern is that this party could gain power in Brazil financed with money produced by illegal activities in Italy. This poses a risk for Brazil, which could be governed by a party of illegal deals, of illegal money." He added: "I do not know the origin of the money, whether it originates with the mafia or with drug trafficking. The information was leaked, and I only confirmed it." He was referring to an Italian television report that the party is being financed by the mafia and by drug trafficking. Amorim met yesterday with Rome District Attorney Vittorio Mele and with the group of Italian judges who visited Brazil last year to investigate Brazilian links with the Italian corruption network: Vittorio Paraggio, Maria Teresa Saragnano, and Mario Almerighi. He also met with Justice Minister Giovanni Conso. Amorim passed secret information to the judges on investments by Italians in Brazil made with money coming from illegal sources. He said: "Whoever finances a party abroad, investing cash, does it because he expects a major economic return in the future. In my capacity as a judge I cannot identify the party, despite the fact that everyone in Brazil knows which party it is. It is a party with strong candidates for the October elections, and which wants to gain power." Amorim also met with Giovanni Galloni, the vice president of the Superior Council of Magistrates, with whom he exchanged views on the work of the courts in the two countries. In the opinion of Amorim, the Brazilian judicial branch is the only institution without indications of corruption.
