FBIS3-11066 "drlat052_m_94003" FBIS-LAT-94-052 Document Type:Daily Report 14 Mar 1994 Brazil Economic Policy Secretary Estimates Primary Surplus PY1603210094 Sao Paulo O ESTADO DE SAO PAULO in Portuguese 14 Mar 94 Economic Section p B3 PY1603210094 Sao Paulo O ESTADO DE SAO PAULO Language: Portuguese Article Type:BFN [Article by Suely Caldas] [Text] Rio de Janeiro -- The public sector will have a primary surplus equivalent to 4.5 percent of the GDP in 1994, or about $20.07 billion, including revenues and spending by federal, state, and municipal governments and the Social Security service. This information was released by Economic Policy Secretary Winston Fritsch. Shortly before leaving for Washington on 12 March, where he will prepare the final agreement between Brazil and the IMF, he reported that the surplus is the figure that was agreed upon with the mission that visited the country two weeks ago. After meeting Finance Minister Fernando Henrique Cardoso on 16 March, IMF managing director Michel Camdessus should give the green light of approval for the Brazilian program, even before the IMF board makes a formal announcement. Camdessus should immediately notify the U.S. Treasury. Fristch expects that this will make the Treasury issue the bonds that will guarantee the foreign debt negotiations with foreign commercial banks, which will be concluded in April. Fristch said the primary surplus will be "strictly complied with" because the figures are "consistent and credible." The surplus, he said, will be obtained thanks to the fiscal effort that reduced spending and capital costs, and increased revenues thanks to the fight against tax evasion. According to Fritsch, the program for the recovery of public utility rates was essential for arriving at this surplus of $20.07 billion because this recovery represented a significant improvement in the financial performance of state-run companies. The program that Brazil will submit to the IMF presupposes that there will be currency stability, despite the fact that Fristch did not say when this stability will be accomplished. Fristch also referred to the evolution of inflation, exchange rates, interest, and spending that is burdened by interest. The surplus, he said, can become the basic source of funds for paying the interest owed by the government and for possible currency reserve increases.
