FBIS3-22032 "jptdd013__l94035" JPRS-tdd-94-013-L Document Type:JPRS Document Title:Narcotics 21 March 1994 LATIN AMERICA COLOMBIA Ambassador Silva Denies U.S. Suspended Information Exchange PA2103035194 Santa Fe de Bogota Inravision Television Cadena 1 in Spanish 0130 GMT 21 Mar 94 PA2103035194 Santa Fe de Bogota Inravision Television Cadena 1 Language: Spanish Article Type:BFN [Report by Diego Suarez; from the "TV Today" newscast] [Text] The United States has not suspended the exchange of evidence and judicial information with Colombia, Ambassador to Washington Gabriel Silva Lujan said today, denying reports by international news agencies concerning such a suspension. The diplomat said on the contrary, new cooperation systems are being studied in the antidrug-trafficking struggle. According to the Colombian ambassador to Washington, although there are some differences of criteria between our government and the United States over the policy of turning drug traffickers over to justice, no break in the exchange of judicial information has taken place. [Begin Silva recording] I do not think this decision has been made, because until recently we have maintained an open and clear dialogue with U.S. authorities. At no time has this possibility been mentioned. I have stayed frequently and closely in touch with U.S. authorities. During none of the official or informal meetings I have held with them have they informed me of such a decision. [end recording] In the meantime, the attorney general has defended Prosecutor General de Greiff's administration and said the two countries are perfecting the judicial cooperation system. [Begin recording] [Attorney General Carlos Gustavo Arrieta] The fact of the matter is that there are many people who would be interested in blocking this cooperation process. On one occasion I have said criminals are the only ones to fish in these troubled waters. [Justice Minister Andres Gonzalez] There have been differences that are known to the public, but I trust we can embark on a great effort to build and create an atmosphere that favors the much-needed judicial cooperation in the international area. [end recording]
