FBIS3-1059 "drafr053_c_94021" FBIS-AFR-94-053 Document Type:Daily Report 17 Mar 1994 REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA Holomisa Reveals Report Implicating Security Officers MB1703205794 Johannesburg SABC TV 1 Network in English 1800 GMT 17 Mar 94 MB1703205794 Johannesburg SABC TV 1 Network Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Transkei leader General Bantu Holomisa said he is waiting for a report from the Goldstone Commission on the supply of weapons to the IFP [Inkatha Freedom Party] and alleged drug trafficking by high-ranking South African security officers. The report, which was to have been tabled with the TEC [Transitional Executive Council], has apparently been withheld by the commission pending further investigations. [Begin recoding] [Correspondent Ami Nanackchand] The disclosures were made at a Natal University forum in Durban where General Holomisa said information implicating six generals of the security establishment had been supplied to the commission towards the end of last year. The classified information was obtained from General Holomisa's tested intelligence and sources. He said that Judge Goldstone had briefed President F.W. de Klerk at the end of February of the commission's findings confirming the allegations. Mr. de Klerk allegedly refused to release the information. General Holomisa said he was told on Tuesday [15 March] that Judge Goldstone would release the report to the TEC within 48 hours. However, the next day the judge apparently said he was making further inquiries. [Holomisa] According to the latest information, or intelligence information, a classified one, he has briefed President de Klerk towards end of February and they have confirmed to him that indeed, your number two in one of your security forces and other generals are involved in drug trafficking as well as supplying weapons to Natal, to the IFP. [Nanackchand] General Holomisa also denied claims by the National Party that he was hindering free political activity in the Transkei. [end recording]
