FBIS4-640 "drafr072_e_94005" FBIS-AFR-94-072 Daily Report 13 Apr 1994 WEST AFRICA Niger Security Forces Clash With Fundamentalists; 10 Dead Security Forces Clash With Fundamentalists; 10 Dead AB1304135994 Niamey Voix du Sahel Network in French 1200 GMT 13 Apr 94 AB1304135994 Niamey Voix du Sahel Network French BFN [Text] [Passage indistinct] There have been clashes at Kolouka. Our reporter Soumana Boubacar visited the scene of the clashes. His report, due to its poor sound quality, is interpreted in the studio by our reporter Ibounge. [Ibounge] Indeed, according to Soumana Boubacar, the clashes are taking place, as you said, at Kolouka, a small village 5 km away from Bani Bangou. Violent and bloody clashes between defense and security forces and Muslim fundamentalists have been taking place there for the past three days. Here is the chronology of events as narrated by our correspondent: At 1400 on 11 April, the brigade commander of Bani Bangou Gendarmerie took six of his men and proceeded to Kolouka to arrest five Muslim fundamentalists following a radio message transmitted from Oualam. On arrival at Kolouka, our gendarmes met with fierce resistance and violent clashes ensued. The Muslim fundamentalists, believing in their invulnerability, crushed and beat the seven gendarmes to death and on the same day declared their village a no-go area. Yesterday morning, the prefect of Tillabery travelled to Bani Bangou to present his condolences to the bereaved families of the seven gendarmes, and yesterday afternoon, an impressive detachment of gendarmes and republican guards under the command of Captain Ibrahim Moussa left Bani Bangou for Kolouka with the mission to capture the fundamentalists responsible for the death of the seven gendarmes. There was a new development this time: a media representative was included in the convoy. One may note that after several unheeded warnings, the gendarmes and republican guards fired teargas at the fundamentalists but they surged forward without any problem. The defense and security men therefore opened fire but all to no avail. The Kolouka Muslim fundamentalists -- under the influence of drugs according to Soumana Boubacar -- were not impressed by the intense firing and continued to advance. Then came the retreat order. However, misfortune set in. A vehicle belonging to the Republican Guard broke down. The occupants tried to flee. One of them was caught by the fundamentalists but before dying he managed, miraculously, to kill two fundamentalists. The detachment then returned to Bani Bangou. One republican guard, (Alga Dizabai), and two fundamentalists died in yesterday's clash. According to the latest information, the fundamentalists plan to march on Bani Bangou, which at any rate is under their control as the gendarmes and republican guards have retreated to Baleyara. Soumana Boubacar reports, however, that soldiers based at (Kinoua) are reported to have cordoned off the area.
