FBIS3-9056 "dreeu053__a94009" FBIS-EEU-94-053-A Document Type:Daily Report 17 Mar 1994 ANNEX Bulgaria Committee Says Bulgarians in Serbia Persecuted AU1703171894 Sofia BTA in English 1648 GMT 17 Mar 94 -- FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY AU1703171894 Sofia BTA Language: English Article Type:BFN [Text] Sofia, March 17 (BTA) -- The Independent Public Committee on National Problems met today to discuss the predicament of Bulgarians living in the Western Outlands, a territory awarded to Serbia under the 1919 Treaty of Neuilly. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Democratic Union of Bulgarians in Yugoslavia. The Committee adopted a declaration saying that the Bulgarian state is entitled and obliged to take care of and protect Bulgarians outside Bulgaria, to help them preserve their lifestyle, culture, language and national identity. While showing the will for good-neighbourly relations, the Bulgarian state authorities and the entire public cannot pass over in silence certain facts related to assimilation processes and human rights abuses in the Western Outlands, the declaration says. A Western Outlands National Fund was established to provide material support for the promotion of the Bulgarian spirit and identity in the area. It is an alarming fact that the number of Bulgarians in that area is diminishing, the public figures found. According to official statistics, Bulgarians there numbered 63,000 in 1960, and the 1991 figure was a mere 25,000. Migration motivated by unemployment and misery is depopulating the area but, along with that, carefully orchestrated processes unfold to eliminate the national identity of Bulgarians there, the committee members claim. The Bulgarian language is not studied or is studied only partially as a foreign language. Books and newspapers in the mother tongue are not available, church services are not conducted in Bulgarian, areas with an all-Bulgarian population are administratively separated and joined to Serbian-populated areas. Monuments of Bulgarian culture and history are demolished or their national character is altered. The Independent Committee insists that the state authorities take the necessary action to establish a free trade area in the Western Outlands and liberalize cross-border clearance to a degree providing opportunities for free movement. According to the Committee, the Bulgarian language must be studied in compliance with the national minority status which the Bulgarian population in the area enjoys, and Bulgarian teachers must be sent there. The necessary action must also be taken to conduct church services in Bulgarian and agree on unobstructed access of Bulgarian books and newspapers and reception of Bulgarian radio and TV programmes.
